 - Hello, and welcome to Python for Everybodybody.
 I'm doing a worked example.
 My name's Charles Severance,
 and I'm the instructor for the class.
 And the worked example that we're going to work on right now
 is in chapter five, and it is exercise one.
 We're going to repeat asking for a number
 until the word done is entered,
 and then we're going to print the total,
 and then we're going to print the count,
 and then we're going to print the average at the end,
 and we're going to enter some numbers,
 and then we're going to do some error checking.
 And we're going to keep on going, so we'll ignore this.
 We'll just say invalid input,
 and then we're going to ignore it.
 So I'm going to start from scratch.
 I'm going to write a, I'll start my terminal,
 start some atom.
 And so I've opened the py4e folder,
 and that's kind of cool, because now I can do things
 like say new folder, and say I'd like an exercise 0501,
 and then go into exercise 0501, and say file new file,
 and then say file save as,
 and put it in exercise 0501,
 and then name the file expo501.py.
 I'm going to start from scratch on this one
 instead of adapting another piece of code.
 I'll say print five.
 And I'm going to do this because now I need to get
 to the point where I'm in the same folder
 in this terminal window.
 CD Desktop, py4e, ex, I can string these together,
 and there I am, and I say python3, ex, and there I go.
 Okay, so I'm in good shape.
 So there's a couple things right now,
 and we're going to do the total count and average,
 and so this is just a basic pattern
 where we're going to need a iteration variable for the count.
 I'll call that num, we start that at zero,
 and then tot, and I'll start that at 0.0.
 So that's the running count and the running total.
 Now we need to write a loop,
 and I'm going to write this as an infinite loop,
 while true, with colon, and then I'll indent,
 and I'll prompt for a string, and remember, input
 gives us a string, so I'm going to call this sval
 equals input, enter a number, colon, space.
 I'm going to deal with the try and accept later,
 but you can just kind of know that the floating point value
 that we're going to do is sometimes this little bit of code
 will fail, I'm just going to take the string value here,
 sval, this input returns us a string,
 and now I'm going to convert that to float.
 I'm going to say print fval, so I can print that out,
 and then I'm going to do the num equals num,
 plus one, and tot equals tot plus fval.
 Now, I do need to deal with the situation
 where I'm entering the word done.
 Now, we want to check that before we convert it to a float,
 because done, well, we can run this.
 It's an infinite loop, but it'll only run a little bit,
 won't cause us too much problem.
 If I run Python, let me drag this over here,
 and I go one, two, three, and if I put in something bad,
 it's running, I don't have a way to get out,
 but you can see that it blew up on line five,
 it blew up right here on line five.
 So what we want to do is we want it to say one, two, three,
 done, but we want it to detect that we've typed in done,
 so here we'll just say if the string value
 that I got back from input is double equal,
 quote, done, quote, break.
 So that basically will break us out,
 and now print all done.
 I should be using single quotes here.
 Too much Java coding.
 Print all done, then I'm going to say print,
 what do I want to print, the total, the num,
 and then tot, comma, num, comma, tot, overnum.
 Now we've got to be careful,
 because we don't want to divide by zero,
 but that'll get us sort of a ways.
 So this is going to run, it's going to read these things,
 it's going to accumulate here.
 This is the accumulator pattern.
 This is a counter pattern
 where we're adding one to a current variable,
 an accumulator pattern where we're adding a value to it.
 So now we should be able to see the done.
 Four, five, and six, and then done,
 and the total of four plus five plus six is 15.
 The number is three, and the average is five,
 and so that's really good.
 The all done prints out.
 I just did that for yucks,
 and you can see the value that's coming out.
 So that's in pretty good shape.
 So I'm going to comment this out, and comment that out.
 So this is pretty good.
 It works just the way we want it to work.
 Four, five, six, but if we do something
 other than we're done,
 then we're going to blow up in this float.
 And so this is where we're going to have to do a try and accept,
 because we just know that this line, line seven,
 line seven is the danger zone, okay?
 So what we're going to do is we're going to put a try in here,
 and then we're going to indent the part of code
 that seems strange,
 and then we're going to have some accept code.
 And the first thing we have to do in the accept code
 is print out the word invalid input.
 Come back.
 Print invalid input.
 Now, just like in an earlier example,
 we have to do something here
 to make sure it doesn't just keep on going,
 because Fval doesn't work.
 We're not going to see the error message
 that would be the traceback here on line nine.
 We're going to run here, but we still don't want to add,
 because Fval will be.
 So this is where we can use the continue.
 So in this code, we're using both the break
 to say if I'm all done break,
 and if I have a problem, I'll print a message out,
 and then I'll say continue.
 So the continue basically says go back up to the top.
 So that is how, when we see enter some bad data,
 we print out invalid input,
 and without adding anything new,
 you don't really see it here,
 without adding anything new,
 you go back up to the top and enter a second thing.
 So now, if everything is right,
 I should be able to type bad input.
 Four, five, six, bad input, bad input, done.
 And I have a total of 15 and three items,
 and the average is 5.0.
 So there we go.
 That's what we're going to get,
 and that roughly achieves this same thing,
 and it's a combination of a loop with a exit mechanism.
 We have some sanity checking of our input,
 so making sure that we have some valid input,
 and we catch it, and we use continue to loop back up
 to run the next iteration of the loop,
 and we have an accumulator pattern,
 and then we can use the accumulated data
 to print what we want to print.
 So I hope that this has been useful to you.
 Exercise 5.1 for Python for everybody.
