 So now we're going to look at some more patterns of the different things we can
 do at the top of the loop, in the middle of the loop, and at the bottom of the
 loop. And the first one we're going to do is counting. Now we're going to take a
 look at the number of something, the number of things in our list. Now we
 could just inspect it and see six, but you will have for loops, like you're
 reading through a file, or you know, scanning through some data, and so the
 notion of counting, you have to assume that you don't really know, you know, dot
 dot dot dot dot, that there's going to be a lot more than just six. But for now
 we're just going to do six, and we're going to count how many things that we
 see in this loop. And the pattern is simple. You set a variable, zork, to zero
 at the beginning. We often call this variable count in mnemonic. And now we're
 going to run this loop six times, one, two, three, four, five, six, and each time
 through we're just going to add one to zork. So zork start at zero, then it goes
 one, two, three, four, five, six, and we're going to print it out. So, you know, we see
 the nine and zork is one. See 41, zork is two. And then in it, zork is 16, when we
 see the 15, four stops, and we print out afterwards. And this then is, six is then
 the ultimate count that we got. So that's very, very simple. The pattern is that set
 it to zero at the beginning, add one to it, and if you run that enough times, then
 this is how many times that happened. And in a sense, it's how
 many times this line ran, right? Sometimes you put this in an if statement, etc, etc, etc, okay?
 Oops. Now, we can do the same thing to get a total. And the way the total works is
 you compute a running total of the number of the items that you've seen so
 far, and at the end the running total, in effect, becomes the total. Will you, a
 better variable name for this would be like sum or total or something, but zork,
 I'll use zork again. So you set zork to zero, and it starts up. The total we've
 seen so far is indeed zero. And then we're going to run this one, two, three, four, five,
 six times, and thing is going to be the iteration variable. It's going to take on the
 successive values. And each time through, we're just going to take our running total
 and add to it the thing we've seen. So we see nine, and the running total is nine.
 We see 41, and the running total becomes 50. We see 12, the running total becomes 62.
 We get a 3, it becomes 65, we get 74, running total is 139. How many more, how
 many more are we going to see? We don't know. Could be a million. Could be one. Oh, it's
 only one. We get a 15, our running total is 154. And what's true at any moment here
 is the running total is right above what we've seen so far. Now, when we're done,
 the for loop quits for us, and afterwards, 154 is indeed the total. So the running
 total while we're in the loop, at the end of the loop, after the end of the loop, we
 have the actual total. So it's not very difficult to convert this to the average
 because we calculated the count, and we calculated the running total, and now
 we're going to have the average by simply dividing those. Okay, so now this time
 I've used mnemonic variables. Don't get confused by this. Mnemonic variables are
 just friendly names I chose for you to read the code easier. I am not
 communicating to Python in any way by naming this count and sum, but count and
 sum is nice. Okay, so I set count to zero and sum to zero. Oh, go back up. I set
 count to zero and sum to zero at the beginning, and the count is zero and the
 sum is zero, and then I'm going to run this loop six times. One, two, three, four, five,
 six, and each time value is the iteration variable. Every time I run
 the loop, I count equals count plus one, sum equals sum plus value, so I have a
 running count and a running total, and they show up here. One, two, three, four,
 five, six, and then the running total, and then at some point the for loop, you know,
 we do the last one and the for loop jumps out, and it divides six, 154 is the
 count and running total, and then it divides the average sum over count. Okay, so
 that's just, again, a pattern of something in the beginning, something in
 the middle, something in the end. Another kind of thing we tend to do in loops is
 we look for things, we hunt for things, and so this is where we have an if
 statement inside of a loop, and of course I've created a silly simple thing. In
 this code, I am looking for large values that are values that are greater than 20,
 and again, don't think of this as just six numbers, but I'm looking for all the
 values and I'm going to print them out. So, you know, it says before, it's going to run
 this, nine, well if nine's greater than 20, it's false, so it goes back up, 41, true, so
 it prints out 41, then goes back up, 12, false, goes back up, three, false, goes back
 up, 74, true, so it runs this, so out comes that little print statement, goes back up,
 and then 15 is the last one, and that's false, it goes back up, and the for says
 we're done, and then we do afterwards, and so this is just the notion of having
 an if statement inside of a for loop, where we're sort of picking, or choosing,
 or selecting, or looking for something in a large set of things that we're looping
 through. We can also say I want to know if a particular value is there, and so
 we're going to use a Boolean variable, and we've talked about integer variables
 like 1, 42, and then floating point variables like 98.6, and then string
 variables like hello world, that have quotes in them. This is a for type, type,
 a kind of variable. It's called a Boolean variable, and it only has two values.
 It has true and false. Matter of fact, these if statements, they return Boolean
 values, value equal equal three, that is returning a true or a false based on the
 value of value. There's a mnemonic confusion there, right, what I'm using.
 So I'm going to make a variable called found, and that's a decent name for
 a variable, so don't get hung up on that, and I'm going to initially say found is
 going to indicate to me whether or not I found a 3 in my list, and I'm going to start
 before the loop starts, let's say false, cuz we haven't found anything yet, so
 found equals false, and so at the beginning of the loop, found is false.
 Before the loop starts, found is false, and now we're going to run this loop a bunch
 of times. 9, is that true? No, skip. 41, is that true? Skip. 12, skip. Right, so 9, 41, 12,
 and found has remained false because we haven't done anything to it, but now in
 comes a 3, and this becomes true, so it runs this code, so found becomes true, and
 then we print it, and you'll notice that when we see a 3, we get true, and then it
 runs again, we get 74, it still false, 15, it still false, run, run, run, quit, and the
 residual afterwards is true, and in fact, if you didn't know any of this, you don't
 print that out, all you know is that afterwards, we loop through all those
 things, and we know that there was a 3 in there. That's what we're doing, so we
 searched all of them, we checked for 3s, when we found a 3, and you can see
 basically that the found remains false until it flips to true, but then
 there's nothing to set it back to false, there's nothing in this loop that's going to
 set it back to false, so once it sort of catches the 3, then it remains true for
 the rest of the loop, and then it just finds its way out. Now if you want to
 think about it for a moment, ask yourself, how might we make this loop more efficient
 by putting a statement right in here? Think about a way to, once you found it,
 and it's true, there is sort of no reason to keep on going, so what would you put
 there to perhaps make this loop to look for 3s, just to tell you whether or not
 there was at least one 3 in there, how to make that more efficient, just think
 about that. Okay, so now let's look back at the largest value that we started out
 with, right, and so if you if you think about this, let's kind of give it a sort
 of a rough rough look here. Largest so far is our kind of like a running total,
 but it's our our hypothesis is the best large number, and we have this if
 statement that says if the number we just see right now is greater than the
 largest so far, then capture it, right, take whatever number we saw and capture
 it, so when we see 9, it's better we capture it, we see a 41, it's better we
 capture it, we don't capture this, we don't capture this, we capture the 74, and
 we don't capture the 15, and that's how we do it, so you could think of this as
 better. When the number we're looking at is greater than our working
 hypothesis of the largest, we grab it because it's better, so this this line
 right here is the grab line, grab it, okay, so then the question is how would you
 modify this code to teach it to find the smallest value in this list of numbers?
 Think of it as you have a starting number, you have a sort of what's better
 in this grabbing notion, how could you do that? Take a look. Okay, so let's take a
 look, so let's let's do a couple things, like the if you look at this if
 statement that's better, well it's better now if the number is less than, so if
 the if then but then we should probably change this to be smallest so far,
 smallest so far, smallest so far, smallest so far, smallest so far, smallest so far,
 right, matter of fact that's what this is, we've changed the word largest so far to
 smallest so far, and we've changed the greater than to a less than, is that
 going to fix it? I'll give you a second to look at it, pause if you need, is that going to
 fix it? Is that going to find our smallest number? The answer is of course no, it's
 not, so if we run this code, so we set the smallest so far to negative 1 and it
 starts out negative 1, we run it and it's 9, is 9 less than negative 1? No, it's not,
 so after we see a 9, the smallest so far is negative 1, now we're going to run 41, is
 41 less than negative 1? No, it is not, so small so far still negative 1, as a matter
 of fact it isn't the smallest so far anymore, just because we named it smallest
 so far doesn't mean it is the smallest so far, it didn't work out so well, and so
 you see that none of these, because they're never less than negative 1, do
 anything and we claim that afterwards the smallest we've seen so far is
 negative 1, and that is because of course negative 1 is smaller than any of the
 numbers that we saw, so how could we fix this? Well, if we started the smallest so
 far with some like arbitrary big number, then it'd be better, so if we made this
 a hundred, whoops, come back, if we made this be like a hundred, that'd be good,
 because the first time through the 9 would be less than a hundred, so we would
 capture the 9 and then the rest of the loop would work just fine, but then what
 if we didn't know that how big these numbers were, as a matter of fact the
 largest so far wouldn't have worked if all the numbers were negative, think
 about that, we just assumed they were positive and so we kind of wrote lazy
 code that assumed all numbers are positive, that might not be a good
 assumption depending on the numbers that you're dealing with, right, so maybe a
 hundred's a good number to start with, or maybe like a thousand, or ten thousand, or
 like some number with lots of zeros in it, how big should we make this? And the
 answer is we're kind of solving this problem the wrong way, and the thing we
 really want to do to solve the problem is to just accept the fact that if we're
 looking for the smallest number so far, that the right hypothesis is the first
 number, and if we just knew what that first number was, the 9, that would
 either, that would, because it's the first number, we know that it's the both the
 largest so far and the smallest so far as soon as you see the first number, but we
 don't know here before the loop starts what that first number is, I mean you
 can look at it but assume this is just data that's coming from somewhere else
 and we don't know it until we start reading it, so we have to construct a
 loop that deals with the fact that we want to capture the first value as our
 hypothesis for smallest so far, so how do we do that? Let's take a look, so what we
 do is we use yet another type, so we have integer, floating point, string, boolean
 and now we have a thing called the None type, None type is a special marker in
 that it only has one value, boolean has true and false, you know, floating point
 has an infinite number values and integer has an infinite number values but
 None type has one value, none, none is a constant, capital none is a constant, the
 difference is is we can check to see if we have stored none, none is often used
 to indicate emptiness, not non-existence because smallest doesn't exist
 until we assign it but we're going to assign it to like a mark, a flag, a marker, some
 way to say oh this is not even a number, it's nothing and so we're going to win, you
 can do this, so that's like makes a variable called smallest and in it puts
 none, it sticks it right in, it's not a string none, it's like a special type, okay,
 so that actually captures the notion that before the loop starts the smallest
 number that we've seen so far is none, we haven't seen any numbers, okay, so then
 we come in and we have an if statement and we have a new operator called is, is
 stronger than equal sign and so if smallest is none that becomes true, it
 runs this case and so then what it does is it copies this first value which is
 nine into smallest and so we see a nine and the smallest so far is nine which is
 the first value and again we're assuming we don't know what the first value is
 before the loop starts so we use the first iteration through the loop as the
 moment where we capture that, okay, so smallest is the value and then we
 print it and we go back up and now it runs again with 41, 41 is not none, none
 is there's only one thing that's none so it is not equal to none, smallest is not
 equal to none or is not none so this is false so it skips over here then it asks
 the question is the value we're looking at 41 less than smallest, well smallest is
 nine in this case and this is 41 so that's false so it skips that and goes
 on so we see 41 we don't take it and then you can see that this will never
 become true again, this is pretty much false for the rest of the iterations of
 the loop, that's false for the rest of the iterations for the loop so it just is
 going to run down here and ask this question and at some point we see a three and we
 run this code we capture it we see 74 we don't capture it we see 15 we don't
 capture it so then the for loop skips out at the end we have the smallest and
 actually this would be a good technique for the largest as well because it
 really is just a technique to put a marker in this variable so that we snag
 that first number or first whatever as we read and parse through them so the
 is and is not operators are very useful in Python you can think of them as like
 the double equal sign they're asking a question and they're asking a question
 and they return a true or you know blank is blank returns a true or false it is
 stronger double equal says are these two can these are these things equal in type
 and value so just as an example if I were to say is 0 equal to 0.0 it would
 say yeah that's true but then if I says 0 is 0.0 that would be false so that's
 because these two are the same value wise and these two are not the same type
 wise so is is stronger than equals meaning that it demands equality in both
 the type of the variable and the value of the variable and no conversion is
 done and so that's just a very strong don't overuse is if you're dealing with
 numbers or even strings use double equals don't use is because sometimes it
 gets a little confusing so use is sparingly I tend to only use is on
 Booleans and on None types I don't use is on integers and I don't use in use is on
 floats and I don't use is on strings just none or true false and also is not
 is also an operator so you just say blah blah blah is not none or blah blah blah
 is not false okay so we've been looping around and doing loops and loops of
 loops we looked at the the indefinite loops the while loops that kind of run
 for a while the definite loop and we looked at break and continue as a way to
 either escape completely from the loop or go back up and discard the current
 iteration of the loop we looked at none we looked at Boolean variables with four
 loops definite loops where you've got some kind of a set or a list or a some
 kind of sequence that you're looping through and then the concept of loop
 idioms where you do something at the top something to each item and then some you
 you sort of get a benefit at the bottom and and so that gets us through
 iterations.
