 So, definite loops use the for keyword.
 And the idea of a definite loop is it's going to loop
 through some set of things.
 It might be a set of lines in a file.
 It might be a set of characters in a string.
 It might be a set of strings in a list of strings.
 But whatever it is, it's sort of gonna run
 a finite number of times, depending on the thing
 that it's looping through.
 And we like this.
 And it's an easier way to construct it,
 and we actually don't have to deal
 with the iteration variable.
 The for loop includes a mechanism
 to construct the iteration variable for us.
 So it's definite loops iterate through the members of a set.
 So here's a very simple for loop.
 And so you see the for keyword.
 And n is also a keyword.
 And the iteration variable is something we put right here.
 This i is declared.
 This i is like an assignment statement.
 And i is going to take on successive values.
 So i is going to be five the first time through the loop.
 Then i is gonna be four the second time through the loop.
 Third, two, one.
 So i is gonna be assigned five different times
 to five different values.
 And then the loop is going to run.
 It's gonna run once with five, once with four,
 once with three, once with two, and once with one.
 And so this block of code, we have contracted,
 say, execute it five times with these values of i.
 i is that iteration variable.
 i is the thing changing through each iteration of the loop.
 And so that's why this prints out five, four, three, two, one.
 And then when it's done, it finishes it.
 So this is a much more direct syntax for looping five times
 and setting an iteration variable.
 You kind of all combine it into this one thing, right?
 All into one thing.
 So it's quite nice.
 So you don't have to be going through a list of numbers.
 There's all kinds of things
 that we can iterate through with four.
 And by the way, while I'm sitting here,
 don't, I named my variable friends,
 'cause that's a list of strings,
 and friend, which is the iteration variable.
 I'm using singular and plural because it helps you read it.
 Python doesn't understand singular and plural.
 So just because you say friends
 doesn't mean Python knows it's a list.
 Python does know it's a list,
 but it doesn't know by the name of the variable I've chosen.
 That's your basic mnemonic variable warning.
 These are cool variable names,
 but I don't want you to be confused by them.
 So you can loop through a variable.
 So we're gonna take this list of three strings
 and stick it in friends.
 And so friend is gonna iterate through that.
 So the first time through, friend is gonna be Joseph.
 Second time through, it's gonna be Glenn.
 Third time through, it's going to be Sal.
 And so that just says run this loop,
 run this code, the indented code, three times.
 Each time the variable friend
 takes on a successive value that's in the friends array.
 So it says happy birthday, Joseph, Glenn, Sally.
 And then we come out of the loop and we print done.
 So if we try to draw a picture of what this is really doing,
 the for loop is actually doing a whole bunch of stuff
 that we would have to do with maybe separate statements
 in the while loop.
 First it decides how many times to run the loop.
 So it's answering the done question, which way do we go?
 And it is also then moving I ahead.
 It's managing the iteration variable.
 If you go back to the, it's initializing it too.
 If you go back to the while loop,
 we had n equals zero while n greater than zero,
 n equals n minus one.
 So we had like three lines to control the loop
 to manage the iteration variable.
 But with a for loop, we don't have to do that.
 And so that's all taken care of.
 And so that basically says the for loop,
 by you using a for loop, are we done?
 No, we have five things to work.
 Well, set i to the first one, run it.
 We're not done 'cause we got one more.
 Set it to the second one, third one, fourth one,
 fifth one, and now we're done.
 And that is all handled in a single line of code
 and that includes the iteration variable
 and the set of things through which
 we are going to iterate through.
 I really like the word in.
 It is mathematically, I mean,
 it reminds me of the set theory where you say
 this is a member of this set or the for each.
 Math isn't important here, but if you do know math,
 the vertical bar means such that, right,
 as a member of this set, that kind of stuff,
 member of this set, I'll erase the math stuff
 so we don't over math.
 But it's like for each of the values in the set
 five, four, three, two, one, run this loop,
 setting the iteration variable i
 to the members of that set.
 So n reminds me, for those of us who are math-oriented,
 n reminds me of a really nice concept in mathematics, okay?
 Now, you could think of this as sort of this
 looping structure where the for loop,
 and this is pretty much how it actually runs
 inside the computer, right?
 Where it initializes it i, it runs this,
 runs this thing five times, and then executes.
 That's one way to think about it,
 but you could also think about it in a somewhat
 more abstract way and think of it as all we're really doing
 is we have a contract with Python that says
 we're supposed to run this code five times,
 and i's supposed to be five, four, three, two, and one.
 So you could imagine this might be what's going on.
 The for loop sets i to five, runs our code.
 The for loop sets i to four, runs our code.
 The for loop sets i to three, runs our code.
 The for loop sets i to two, runs our code.
 For loop sets i to one, and runs our code.
 All we know is our code was ran five times,
 and by contract, each successive time,
 we're getting a different value for i,
 and the value for i is taken from this set.
 And so this is just one way to think about it,
 to say to yourself, oh yeah, this is one way
 to think about it as it's actually,
 and this is how it really works,
 but this is also kind of logically the contract
 that Python is making for us.
 So up next we're gonna talk about taking this notion
 of doing something to a lot of items,
 but accomplishing something with that,
 and I call these loop idioms.
 (jazz music)
 (jazz music)
