 So now we're going to take a look at how we deal with
 more than one table, multiple tables.
 'Cause the real power of SQL and the power of database
 performance has to do with when you start connecting
 tables together.
 If you go back to that original mathematics,
 it models data at the intersections between the row
 and the columns.
 And these intersections are the magical bits.
 And so, breaking an application to use multiple tables
 is an art form.
 It takes a while.
 There are some simple basic things that you can learn
 and will teach you here.
 And so it's not too hard to learn the basics,
 but then it's much more complex to be super skilled at it.
 And in general, advanced databases, in my mind,
 it's hard to teach advanced databases,
 because they're always so contextually grounded.
 You know, something like Twitter or Google,
 the databases are so specialized.
 By the time you make,
 everyone can do small to medium sized databases
 using the basic techniques,
 but at some point, once you escape medium sized databases,
 you end up in these sort of narrow things
 and optimize each database very separately.
 And so I just tell people, you know,
 learn the basics really, really well,
 write programs and then go do real work.
 But database design is the act of figuring out
 the data that your application is going to want to store
 and spreading that across multiple tables.
 But we don't just do it randomly.
 We do it very much cleverly.
 And if you look at a data model,
 this is what it looks like.
 And what we're showing here in this data model
 is we are showing five tables,
 and this is a kind of a calendar kind of a system,
 and we're seeing the columns that are in each of the tables,
 and then we're seeing the relationships between the tables.
 And even in these relationships,
 there's kind of a little bit of code.
 And when you have an arrow that looks like that,
 there's many of those to one,
 and this is a many-to-one relationship,
 many-to-one relationship.
 We'll talk all about that stuff.
 But if you go into an organization
 and you have a really large and complex data application,
 they might have something printed out on the wall
 that looks about like this,
 which shows the database tables and connections,
 et cetera, et cetera.
 And they might say, oh, your job is to go down
 and then this little corner, add one column,
 field there, and then do this,
 and then connect it with this thing over there,
 and then make a screen that shows all these things
 that pulls from this table, this table,
 this table, and that table.
 And that's your job, if you're a programmer
 on a large software development project.
 These database models become sort of like
 the core backbone of the knowledge
 that applications are managing and using.
 So, the idea is is that you take your application,
 we're going to start really simple,
 we're going to take your application,
 and you have to draw a picture.
 And the basic rule, and literally,
 you could spend course upon course
 learning about database normalization.
 But I'm going to distill it into one basic rule,
 and that is never put the same string data in twice.
 So, my name, Charles Severance,
 if I build a database well,
 you should go into that database,
 and you'd say, okay, the words Charles Severance,
 which is the name of a person, me, in that database,
 only shows up once.
 And what we do instead is we connect things together
 and model my name as a connection to the record
 that has my actual name in it,
 rather than putting my name all these other places.
 And so, the idea is to pull duplicate data out
 and make only one copy of it.
 So, there is the users, and in there is the user's name,
 and the user name shows up only here,
 and everything else points to the particular user entry.
 So, that's the idea.
 And so, here is our first application.
 We are working as a startup.
 We just quit all of our jobs,
 and we are going to build a music management application.
 I mean, what a great idea,
 don't you think that'll be quite successful?
 And so, we have mocked up and we have figured out
 that this is what our music management application,
 we want to track people's tracks,
 know something about what artists and albums
 and genre they are, and we want to have ratings,
 and how many times we played them, and how long they are.
 That's the data that our application needs to represent.
 And we've done testing on this and wireframes,
 and everyone loves this, a great user interface.
 And so, this is how it's got to look.
 But we're going to have billions and billions of tracks
 in these things, and so we want to come up
 with an efficient database to handle this.
 And so, we're going to take a look at this,
 and look at each of the columns,
 and we're going to ask ourselves,
 is this column part of one of our existing objects,
 our existing tables, or has this object
 have to create a new table?
 And then, once we find those different objects,
 we connect the tables together and model the connections.
 Now, a little trick to kind of make it a little easier
 on ourselves is we can look in these columns,
 and look in the columns that have duplicate information
 vertically that's string information.
 So, a rating is just a number like zero through five.
 So, we don't worry too much about integers,
 and numbers, and that kind of stuff, or whatever,
 but we do look for strings.
 And the problem here is we got like,
 these strings occur many times.
 And so, these are the problems.
 And so, we have to put these things
 where there is replication of string data
 kind of in the vertical dimension.
 We have to put those in different tables.
 And so, we'll start out.
 Now, the first question that you have to ask yourself
 when you're going to draw this picture
 of how this data is in multiple tables
 and connect it together, is what is the first one
 that you're going to write down?
 And this is an interesting debate,
 and often people are sitting in a conference room,
 and people who have experience kind of know what to do.
 Usually, if it's a multi-user system,
 like a learning management system,
 the users might be the central concept,
 perhaps the courses might be the central concept.
 This is a single-user system, and so you can think,
 well, what is really this application about?
 It's not about people, it's one person.
 But it is about tracks.
 And so, we can say, okay, here we'll take the track
 is probably the sort of most foundational notion
 of this application.
 And then we can take and say, okay,
 now that we've decided that tracks
 are the foundational notion,
 which of these columns are simply an attribute of the track?
 Not really the cheating way and the easy way,
 and this particular one is like these numbers,
 all these numbers, like this number and these numbers,
 not that one. (laughs)
 They just go along with track, and so we'll put that in.
 We got the track title, rating, length, and count,
 and we put that in.
 And then the question is, we've got the remaining things,
 we've got the artist, we've got the album,
 and we've got the genre.
 And so, we can say, okay, well, we can't,
 we've got some vertical duplication,
 so we're going to say, okay, this track probably
 belongs to an album, so let's pull out the album
 into its own table.
 Oops.
 Pull the album out into its own table.
 And so,
 pull the album out into its own table.
 And so, that pulls that out, and then you say, okay,
 what would be the next thing that we're going to pull out?
 So, we pulled out the track, we've got this taken care of,
 this taken care of, that taken, now we've got the album.
 Well, albums belong to artists, so let's take out
 the artist, and then we'll pick where the genre belongs,
 and we'll just say that the genre belongs to the track,
 and so, because there might be albums with more than
 one different genre, so it either belongs to the album,
 or a different genre, so each album is not necessarily
 a rock album, it could have a rock track,
 and a country track, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
 And so, now what we've got is we've got four tables, right?
 We've got a track table, we've got an album table,
 an artist table, and a genre table, and if we sort of
 double check, all of the columns that had vertical
 duplication in them now have their own little table.
 So, we can eliminate, the next thing we'll do is to show
 how we're going to eliminate this vertical data replication
 by showing how you represent these relationships
 that we just created inside of the database.
 (heavy metal music)
