 - Hello, and welcome to our chapter on databases.
 We're going to learn a lot in this chapter,
 learn a whole new programming language, SQL,
 and learn how to use that.
 So you're going to need a new piece of software
 to run all of the exercises that I'm going to do
 called SQLite Browser.
 We're using a database called SQLite.
 Go ahead and download this.
 You might have to pause and come back if you like.
 Go to SQLiteBrowser.org and download it and install it.
 While you're doing that,
 let's talk a little bit about the history.
 So, in the old days, 1960s, 1970s,
 I started doing computing in 1975,
 we didn't have a lot of storage.
 I mean, this is 16 gigabytes right here,
 and we didn't even have megabytes.
 I mean, the computer I had had a few megabytes of stuff.
 So, we didn't have a lot of disk drives,
 and so permanent storage was often sequential.
 These tapes, these tape drives that we had,
 tapes and tape drives were the scalable part of storage,
 because you could just make more tapes
 and you could rack 'em up, and so that was our way
 of greatly increasing the storage of the computer.
 The problem they had was, is they were sequential.
 You read it, it advances, read it, it advances,
 read it, it advances.
 Now, interestingly, we've been writing programs that do this,
 that everything we've written so far
 pretty much reads the whole file,
 reads the whole webpage, reads this, everything we read it.
 We read either a loop or read the whole thing,
 and that's because we have plenty of memory,
 but we're still reading sequentially,
 and so the way you would do this
 when you didn't have enough spinning storage
 or online storage is you'd use offline storage,
 but the trick would be that you would sort it.
 So, let's imagine that you're a bank
 and you have a bunch of accounts,
 only a few of which are active on any day,
 and you have a tape that has,
 in account number order from low to high,
 the prior balance, last night's balance
 of every one of your bank accounts,
 and then you do all the transactions
 and you record how much money was taken in or out
 for each account number,
 and then you sort those transactions,
 and then what you do is what we call
 the sequential master update,
 and that is you would write a program
 that would read the first transaction and hold onto it.
 Say, okay, this is count 45.
 Then it would read the first count, like one,
 and it would copy one, and then it'd read two,
 and read like seven, eight, 42, 43,
 then it would read like 44,
 and it would read 45, but now it would change that
 and write the new 45, and read the next thing,
 and so this might be 60,
 and it would read a bunch of stuff
 and copy a bunch of stuff,
 and then it would finally get to 60,
 and it would merge the add, the subtract,
 and so the old balance ended up here,
 and the new balance did here,
 and you had to only make one pass through the data,
 so it was super efficient.
 So, we had all these mechanisms to sort.
 We used to do punch cards and have sorters
 and all these things,
 and then these things would run for hours,
 and if you watch old TV shows,
 these tapes are spinning,
 and these things are running back and forth,
 these are simply reading and writing tapes,
 and that's how we did a lot of data processing,
 because we could store far more on a tape drive
 than we could on a disk,
 and with racks of tape drives,
 we could scale the storage that our computers had,
 and so that's the way we did data processing,
 but it meant that the only way you knew
 what the old balance was,
 was it was the balance as of this morning,
 before your bank started,
 you don't know what the balance was for the day,
 and that led to things like,
 you can never withdraw more than $100 a day,
 or something like that,
 because you don't know what the old balance was,
 or you might go withdraw $100
 at a couple of different branches,
 and so they weren't able to look your stuff up right away.
 Now, it didn't take long
 until the disk drives got better and better and better,
 and you could store the entire accounts,
 all the accounts and their current balances on computers,
 and then the problem becomes,
 is what happens if sort of in the middle of the afternoon,
 you want to update a balance?
 Well, do you want to read all your data,
 and then write a brand new one,
 and let's say that takes like 10 minutes,
 that means for that 10 minutes,
 only one person can be updating their bank balance,
 and so because we could randomly access this data,
 we didn't have to read it all sequentially,
 the trick was, is how do you spread the data out,
 and then how do you make it so you can change a balance,
 this is of course second nature today,
 but how do you make it so you change the balance here
 without changing the balance there,
 and you can have multiple people
 going simultaneously to these things,
 and make sure that you can't say,
 withdraw money at two different locations simultaneously,
 and somehow have your bank balance get corrupted by that.
 So there's a lot of debate on how to do that,
 and in early days, we just did sequential master update,
 but increasingly we wanted to make better use
 of the random nature of our computers, and our storage,
 and so that's what led to databases,
 databases are the science of how you make use
 of rotating random access data, permanent data,
 in a way that allows you to read, modify,
 and update that simultaneously
 from many different locations,
 and yet keep the data completely consistent,
 and so this led to a study of a thing
 called relational databases,
 and relational databases are not
 the only databases that happened,
 we had many other kinds of databases,
 and there was a debate,
 and I remember in the 70s and the 80s,
 there was folks that says, oh no, no,
 there you can do index sequential,
 that's the way to do it,
 and relational databases weren't popular,
 weren't all that popular the first time that I saw them,
 I didn't like relational databases,
 but relational databases had an inherent advantage
 because they were based on some really powerful mathematics,
 and the interesting thing is early on,
 the relational databases were slower,
 but eventually they figured out
 how to sort of bring all the cleverness to bear
 to make relational databases fast,
 and so relational databases are a pretty advanced technology,
 and there are companies like Oracle
 that are very, very wealthy,
 and their primary product for many, many years
 was nothing more than a clever database product,
 a clever piece of software
 that was really good at solving this problem,
 and that's how important this problem was to computing.
 If you read about databases,
 you're going to see two sets of terminology.
 One set of terminology
 comes from the mathematical background,
 and has to do with the underlying math,
 things like relations, tuples, and attributes,
 that's kind of like the fancy math version of it,
 and programmers kind of think of them
 as rows and columns inside of a table,
 and so if you look at sort of fancy theory,
 you'll see words that look like this,
 and they're just full of this in the connection.
 Now, all this is important and true,
 and if you really want to get good,
 you sort of begin to understand the nature
 that we model data at connections
 rather than at sort of intersection points,
 rather than just modeling data
 as a flat file the way we do,
 but for now, we're going to, as programmers,
 think of this as just like,
 oh, it's like a super fast spreadsheet.
 The super fast part is the math.
 For us, the rows, columns, and tables are spreadsheets,
 so it thinks of, think in a spreadsheet of sheets,
 sheet, sheet, sheet, and that's like a table,
 a named thing, like tracks, or albums, artists, or genres,
 and then there is rows,
 and each row has a different kind of data,
 and then there's columns, and we sort of specialize
 the first column in many spreadsheets to say what's in there.
 This is not really the data.
 This is like metadata.
 It's like the title's in this first column.
 That's not really the data, and the data starts here,
 and we have different kinds of data,
 like strings and numbers, et cetera, et cetera,
 for each of the rows.
 And literally, you can get away with this
 as sort of about 80% of databases
 as just a really super cool spreadsheet,
 but under the covers, it is far more powerful than that.
 So one of the early arguments that happened was, again,
 what the programming model for this was,
 and a lot of folks wanted a programming model
 that reflected how the data was actually stored.
 The notion of structured query language came about
 in a way to express what you want it to happen
 and allow that to be sort of a very abstract expression.
 Select all records that meet this criteria,
 not read, read, read, read, read, read.
 And so structured query language
 is not a procedural language.
 It is a imperative language
 where you're simply saying what you want,
 and then somebody writes the loop,
 the database actually does the loop,
 but it's a way for you to avoid actually writing the loop.
 Now, that turns out to be the power of databases
 because the cleverness in how to write the loop
 is a way that you would probably never figure out
 how to be most supremely optimal
 when it comes to writing the loop,
 as you'll see toward the end
 of joining many tables together
 and selecting and throwing a array
 and getting down a count or whatever.
 Someone has figured out how to do that really, really well.
 So the idea was, as you would express,
 we're going to create some data,
 we're going to retrieve some data,
 we're going to insert and delete it.
 Create, read, crud, C-R-U-D.
 Create, read, update, and delete crud.
 And so that's what this does.
 It's a language that does this very simply.
 Now, the applications that we're going to use this for
 are more of a data analysis application.
 We've been doing data analysis through the whole course.
 And the kinds of things that we'll see
 in the remaining chapters is we'll take some raw data file.
 These might actually come across the network.
 And we'll write some Python programs
 to play with that data, parse it,
 clean it up, make sense of it, you know?
 And then write it into a database.
 And this might be a slow process
 or this might be really nasty,
 and this might be a way to have very clean data.
 And then we'll write another Python program
 to sort of read this, read through it,
 and it's all efficient and pretty.
 And then we can produce files
 and maybe we'll visualize it
 or do further analysis in R, Excel,
 or a JavaScript visualization framework.
 And so, in this situation, you will be the person
 who is both sort of writing the programs,
 database administrator, and you can,
 using SQLite Browser, play and look at the database
 kind of in a raw way.
 And the first part of this,
 we are mostly going to be using SQLite Browser
 just to talk straight to a database.
 Later, we'll write Python programs
 that read and write data and visualize the data.
 So this is what we're going to do first.
 And then second, we're going to do this part right here.
 That's the second thing we're going to do.
 Now, another really common use of applications
 and something that if you continue
 learning more about programming,
 is that you will want to write an online application
 like Amazon or a company or Twitter
 that's got a website and it stores dynamic data and databases.
 And so the picture for that is similar but different
 than the picture we're going to start out with.
 And so the way this usually works
 is that you, the end user, uses a web browser,
 talks to the application,
 and the developer writes the application software.
 And that application software stores its data in a database.
 And inside that database,
 we talk to the database using SQL,
 and all the data is actually stored here.
 And the magic happens, the data server
 is that database software that's so precious and valuable.
 And then there's another person,
 often called the database administrator,
 who has access to the direct access to the data.
 And these roles in medium and large project
 are kept separate, mostly because the...
 Mostly because the...
 The production, while it's running and live,
 the developer leaves the data alone
 and works on, say, the next version of the software.
 And then the developer has a test version
 of the application that they run on their computer,
 where they're doing all that stuff.
 So this database administrator is a role
 in a large project where we have to run production
 and keep production careful, keep production in good shape.
 So the database administrator has this responsibility
 for the production aspects of the data.
 And you may be working in a situation
 where you're not actually controlling the data.
 The database server's on different computers,
 you have a little special access,
 and you write programs to sort of read the data.
 And so the database administrator is the person
 who is asked by the organization to administer that data.
 The data that we develop, and we'll do this
 in the second part of these lectures,
 conforms to a data model.
 That's the metadata.
 Is this an integer?
 Is this a string?
 How many columns is this?
 And the data model turns out to be very, very important,
 and there's a lot of science
 to building an effective data model
 that leads to really good performance.
 And it's a collaborative activity
 between the application developers
 and the database administrator to make it so it's efficient,
 runs in production, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
 There's a lot of products out there that you may encounter.
 We're going to be using SQLite.
 SQLite's a little tiny database server,
 and it's built into so many things,
 and that's why we like it.
 But if you're going to work at a large organization,
 you could easily run into Oracle,
 which is the number one commercial product.
 Microsoft has a thing called SQL Server,
 which is a commercial product,
 and it's also very popular and very effective.
 The more popular open source,
 there's things called Postgres, there's MySQL,
 and MySQL recently was sort of bought by Oracle,
 and there is a copy of that called MariaDB
 that doesn't belong to Oracle, MariaDB.
 And so, most of the SQL that we're going to learn
 is common across these database systems
 because SQL is a standard,
 but then there are parts that weren't part
 of the original standard where each database vendor
 has done things a little bit different,
 but there is a core common subset
 that does the basic create, read, update,
 and delete operations.
 So SQLite is very popular.
 You probably have it in your cell phone 10, 12 times.
 Your web browser has a database engine in it.
 Your car has a few databases in it.
 And so, SQLite is what's called an embedded database system.
 Python comes built in with it.
 You just import SQLite 3 and away you go.
 And so, it's very, very popular because it's free,
 it's open source, and it's such a tiny little piece
 of software that you just include it
 in other pieces of software and use it
 to solve the data management problems
 of those pieces of software.
 Like your browser might use SQLite to store your bookmarks.
 Now you think, oh, there's only how many bookmarks
 can you have, but what if there you need it to be fast?
 And what if there's people that have 10,000 bookmarks?
 There probably are.
 Do you still want it fast?
 Do you want to be able to search?
 And so, you get all that by using a database like SQLite.
 And so, again, we're going to encourage you
 to download the SQLite browser so you can follow along
 with what we're going to do coming up next.
 And so, here is the SQLite browser.
 Here's what it looks like.
 And it's just a desktop application.
 And coming up next, we'll start playing
 with this desktop application and see how it works.
 (upbeat rock music)
 (upbeat rock music)
