 Hello everybody and welcome to yet another walkthrough of Python for everybody. This is a
 walkthrough of the Tracks CSV application and you go to www.py4e.com/code3 and you will find a file
 named tracks.zip. Tracks.zip. Download this and extract it and you will have all the code
 that I am working with. So, here I am in that file. Let's take a look at the files that are in here.
 So, there's an old folder for the old XML version of this application. If you want to try that one,
 it's still sitting there. The autograder doesn't actually care whether you use the CSV one or the
 XML one. The XML one is interesting if you have to learn XML. But basically what we're going to do
 is we're going to take a CSV file, tracks.csv, compass-separated-values, and this is just a
 whole bunch of data from my own export of my iTunes data then converted to CSV from XML.
 So, it's got the title of it, the artist, etc. And so, we're going to read this one line at a time
 and then insert it in a database. And the key thing to this database is we're going to make it
 in normal form, meaning that we're only going to put the artist in once. We're going to have a
 primary key. We're going to have a unique name. So, the word queen is going to only appear once
 in that table. And so, we're going to link everything together through foreign keys like
 artist ID and album ID. And if we get this thing started, we sort of start her up. We go to
 trackdb.sqlite. And I want to be able to run this over and over again. So, the first thing I do is
 drop all three tables and then I recreate them, both in case I want to change my schema or if I
 just make a mistake and I want to start over. Because if you write this or you're modifying
 this code, you make little mistakes and you just want to start over. Every time you run the code,
 you want it to start fresh. So, let's take a look at the code that's going to run. We're going to
 open that tracks.csv file, this one right here. And then it's not a super formatted csv. This is
 kind of a really simple csv that's just com separated versus a true csv is actually a format.
 And there's code inside Python that parses the rich csv format. But I'm just going to read through
 and split it by commas. And in case there's like some weird piece of code in there and there's not
 what I want, if there's less than six pieces, I'm just going to skip it. So, I put a continue in
 here. And then I parse out the pieces, the name of the track, the artist, the album, the count,
 the rating, and the length. And so, we're most interested in an artist and album doing a money
 to one relationship into that. So, I just immediately print those things out because I want,
 you know, when I build something like this, I would build these lines first. And yes, it looks
 like my parsing is working correctly. Then we're going to do the many to one. And so, we work from
 kind of the leaves of the tree inward. So, we're going to do an insert or ignore into the artist
 by name. And so, whatever that is, queen or whatever. Now, that's the first time it's going
 to actually insert it and assign a primary key. And the second time, this ignore is going to work
 because the name on the artist table is defined as unique. And so, you can't insert that more
 than once. So, this will work the first time we see a particular artist, but it will ignore it the
 rest of that point. But then we got to figure out what the generated ID is, the primary key. So,
 we're going to select that. So, you notice there's an ID in there. That means auto-generate this if
 I don't give it to you. And so, we're going to grab the ID from artists where name equals and
 then look that same artist up by the name of them and then grab the artist ID. This is going to be
 fetch one, get one record, and then the zeroth item, which is there's only one column. There's
 going to only be one row and artist ID is what we get. Same thing is true except now we're going to
 use artist ID as a foreign key into the album. And so, we're going to insert album by title
 and artist ID as a foreign key in there. And then we're going to do the same trick.
 We're going to look up the ID, the primary key of that particular album. We're recording the artist
 ID. If we're inserting it, we want to record it. But now we're going to get the primary key
 of the album. We'll have that. And then let's get all that figured out. We're kind of working
 from outward in. So, we're doing artist, then we're doing album, and then we're doing track.
 That's kind of outward in. And then we're going to insert the foreign key album ID, title, length,
 rating, and count into the table. And then we commit it so that we write it all to the database.
 So, let's go ahead and run this code. Python tracks.py. It opens the file, loops through
 everything, and away you go. So, if you look at like the last file in its microchip, Jason Farnham,
 and then that is the last record that came out. So, now at this point, let's take a look at the
 database. And trackdb.sqlite. That's the file. And I can say, I've got the SQLite browser installed
 in the command line. You may have it in your... Oops. I can't even type it. And then trackdb.
 Okay. So, I can say, what tables do I have in here? And I see they've got the album, artist,
 and track. And I can say, select star from artist, limit 10. So, you see that queens are the first
 one. Led Zeppelin. These are the primary keys. There is only one record named queen. So,
 I can even say this. Select star from artist where name equals queen. So, you'll see that there is
 only one record. And if we say, select star from track, limit 10, we see they're all connected
 together and we got the primary key for the track. And then the album ID is this third parameter here.
 You see, that's album seven. And there's a lot of reuse there in the data. So, let's get out of this.
 So, I'm going to open the SQLite browser. And we're going to open the trackdb.sqlite.
 So, we see that those are the tables that got created. We can take a look at the data.
 We can go look at, for example, the artist data. And we see again one same kind of data there. See
 all of them now. And then we can kind of work our way into album. The album has a foreign key of
 artist ID. And each album has its own ID. And then if we go to track, we see them all together,
 where we have album ID and this other data, which is not really foreign keys, but we see the album
 ID foreign key. So, that gives you hopefully a quick run through of the CSV version of the tracks
 and the one-to-many mapping into a database.
