 - So we're gonna find that there's a number of different ways that we can read through the file,
 but the most common way that we're gonna read through the file is to treat it as a sequence of lines,
 and we're gonna use the determinant loop, the for loop, to do this.
 And so what happens here is we get back this handle that opens the file and gives us back the handle.
 That handle, xfile, is the variable I named, I just named it xfile.
 That's not the data, but it is a sequence.
 It is that file handle represents to Python a sequence
 that we can potentially walk through and then get all the lines.
 And it's the simplest, most beautiful, elegant way to read all the lines in a file.
 We use the for loop, and we have an iteration variable.
 This is going to take, when we talk about the file, cheese is gonna be the first line,
 then the second line, then the third line, then the fourth line.
 So it's like going through a string, but you're going through a file now,
 and you're getting it line by line.
 So that's each line.
 I just picked a variable named cheese, so you didn't get confused.
 Later I'll call this line.
 But Python doesn't know anything special by naming that variable line.
 Okay, and so this is, it's the for and the in,
 and so I read this as for each line in the file, the file handle xfile.
 So run this loop one time for every line, and then print it out.
 So it's actually really quite simple, okay?
 Other languages like C or C++ or other languages, they have to write while loops
 with end of file conditions and all kinds of things that make this very difficult.
 But this is one of the prettiest things that Python has.
 It's a very, very pretty thing.
 Okay, so let's talk about what we might do, and we're going kind of back to iterations now.
 What if we wanted to count the number of lines in a file?
 Well, this is a basic loop counting pattern.
 So we open the file, and then like in all these loops, we do something to sort of prime the loop
 to get it started, set a variable count to zero, and I'm going to use the variable line
 that's going to go through each of the lines in the file, for line in f hand, down the file.
 And it's going to run this loop once for each line in the file,
 and the variable line is going to change.
 But all I'm going to do is add count equals count plus one, and so that's just,
 like from counters, that's just how you detect.
 So every time we see a line, we're just going to add one to the counter.
 We're not printing the line, we're not even looking at its data at this point.
 And then when the line is done, however many times it has to go, out it comes,
 and we print out line count equals count.
 And so if we open inbox.txt, this is going to do all this work, and then print this line out,
 and say line count is 132,045.
 So this is a little five line program that shows you how to count the lines
 in a text file using Python.
 Again, simple and elegant, and not too much syntax for you to have to learn.
 Now it's also possible to read the file as a series of characters, all in one go.
 Read the whole file in.
 Now you've got to be careful, depending on the size of the file,
 this is going to lead to a string variable with a lot of data in it.
 Now if it's, you know, 100,000 characters, that's actually kind of a small thing.
 But if it was, you know, 10 million lines, that would probably not be good.
 You'd want to read it one line at a time
 and process each line and then do something.
 But mboxshort.txt is a small little file.
 So we open it, and we get back a file object,
 file handle object, and we call the read method.
 And that says, look, go through and read all the text
 and give it back in one big blob, one big string,
 and I'll put it in imp.
 And so that's where you have a line, a new line,
 a line, a new line, a line, a new line.
 It's not really lines, it's just a sequence of characters
 with new lines in there to punctuate them.
 And now you can split that, later we'll see how to split that,
 into separate lines if you want.
 Now I picked a file that was short,
 and so this imp variable now has a string in it,
 and I can use the len function,
 pass a string into the len function,
 it says, oh, 94,626 characters.
 That's kind of a small little file,
 and perfectly okay to read it all in one go.
 And so now I say, just print the first 20 characters,
 that's beginning to up to but not including 20,
 and so it shows the first 20 characters of that little file
 is a from line, 'cause this is a mailbox file.
 Now, let's say we're going to do a searching,
 and we did this loop where you're looking for something.
 And so we're gonna search for lines
 that have a prefix of from.
 Okay, that's what we're gonna do,
 and we're gonna print those lines out.
 So there's lots of lines in this file.
 You know, line, line, line, line, from.
 Line, line, line, line, from, right?
 On and on and on.
 And we only wanna show these lines,
 the ones that match, right?
 That's what we wanna do.
 And so we are going to write an open statement,
 and then we're gonna loop through,
 and we're gonna ask the question,
 if the line starts with from, print it.
 So sometimes it's gonna skip, skip, skip, skip,
 and then it's gonna run it,
 and then skip, skip, skip, skip, skip,
 and it's gonna run it.
 Skip, skip, skip, and then it's gonna run it.
 Okay, so that's the basic idea.
 And then it'll finish when it's all said and done.
 And so this is like a criteria.
 This is like a search.
 We're looking for lines that match the string,
 that have the string from as their prefix.
 Now, when we look at the output of this,
 it's kinda weird.
 We see kinda these little blank lines that show up.
 Blank, blank, blank, blank, blank, blank, blank.
 What's going on here?
 What's going on?
 So let's take a quick look.
 The problem is, is new lines.
 Well, I mentioned that the file has new lines in them.
 And so when you do the for loop,
 it doesn't throw the new lines away.
 As you might expect, it would be kinda nice if it did,
 but it doesn't.
 It actually shows you when you read,
 it reads that first line up to and including the new line,
 and gives you that back as the variable.
 So that is the first new line.
 So that means it's gonna go down.
 And then the print statement actually adds another new line.
 So that's the second line of the file has a new line
 at the end of it,
 and the print statement adds another new line.
 So if we take a look at the code,
 there is a new line.
 Oops, come back.
 If we take a look at the code,
 this variable line has a new line in it.
 Oops, where am I at?
 I'm in the wrong slide.
 There we go.
 Yeah, this is what I wanna do.
 If we look at the code, there's a new line in here,
 and then the print adds another new line.
 So the print adds a separate new line.
 And that's how we get two new lines,
 the print statement's new line
 and the new line from the file.
 Here's how we fix it.
 And you're gonna write this code a lot,
 because when you're reading text files,
 you end up with a new line,
 and often you don't want the new line.
 But thankfully, as we saw in the previous chapter,
 there is a nice little function in Python
 for strings called strip
 that allows you to throw away whitespace.
 And to review, remember whitespace
 is anything that doesn't print.
 And this new line is not a non-printing character.
 So rstrip gets rid of it.
 So it's a way to get rid of whitespace.
 And rstrip does it from the right end.
 So it's the right end of the string.
 And so if we just are gonna loop
 through all the lines in the file,
 we say line equals line rstrip,
 and then this variable no longer has the new line
 at the end of it.
 We have our little if statement.
 And if we print it, then this line,
 the data has no thing, and then the print,
 the data has no new line in it,
 so the print only goes down one.
 And so now we have single-spaced output.
 And so you're gonna be doing that a lot.
 It's really common to read through a file
 and then just strip the new line
 or any trailing space off the end of that.
 Now, there's a couple of ways to do a loop like this,
 and let's just think of this as
 we're looking for a line, a file
 with lots of different lines in it,
 and we wanna ignore all the lines
 except some, say, good lines,
 and we wanna do something with those good lines,
 or the lines we're looking for.
 Needle in a haystack.
 This is like searching for a needle in the haystack.
 So if you look at this code at high level,
 we're gonna loop through everything,
 and then we're sort of picking which lines are,
 and these are the good lines down here.
 Now, often we have a bunch more code that we wanna do,
 and we're not just printing them,
 but we're gonna do a lot of code.
 So sometimes you actually structure the loop
 a little bit differently.
 And so the way to do it,
 and this is gonna do the exact same thing,
 it's just a little different way
 of thinking about this loop.
 So the top part is the same.
 We're stripping it.
 And what we're doing here is
 everything's the same here except we add this to not.
 If the line does not start with from,
 that's the translation of that.
 If the line does not start with from, continue.
 So basically we have a skipping pattern.
 So the lines we're not interested in, we skip.
 So we come down, we skip a lot of lines.
 (imitates line skipping)
 And then we find a line that's good,
 and then we fall through.
 So this is the good code,
 and then we have all the other good code
 that we wanna do to that line.
 We have that showing up down here.
 And so there's just two patterns,
 that are two ways to do the exact same thing.
 So another way to select the lines
 that we're interested in is to use the in operator.
 So we talked before about the in operator and how that works.
 So we're basically gonna use the continue skipping method.
 So we're gonna read all the lines, these first few lines.
 If uct.ac.za is not in the line, skip it.
 And so this is gonna print out all the lines
 that have the string uctacza in them.
 And so you see this is the output of the program,
 dot dot dot dot dot.
 Sometimes you'll have programs
 that want to read different files.
 Often I give assignments where I say,
 show me how this program runs on the short file,
 and then show me again how it runs on the long file,
 just like this.
 And so the way we do that, to input the file name,
 instead of making the file name be a constant
 to the open call, we make the file name be a input.
 So we just run an input statement,
 which gives us a prompt, and then we type mbox.txt,
 and then that shows up in this variable F name.
 It's the course of string all the time.
 And we pass that in to open, and then we open it,
 and then we do the count operation.
 So if we enter nbox.txt, it counts 1797
 subject lines in mbox, and if we give it mbox short,
 it says there are 27 subject lines in mbox.
 And again, this is another one of those ifs,
 and it's just counting, but only counting lines
 that match a particular pattern.
 Okay, so now the user can also type bad file names,
 and we need to be able to deal with that as well.
 And so we're taking a small change to the code.
 The dangerous code is this line right here.
 This line right here is gonna trace back
 if that file doesn't exist.
 So what do we do?
 Well, we're gonna just expand that.
 The rest of this program is exactly the same.
 The only thing's different is we've got this line.
 We took out insurance on it,
 and we know that it might blow up,
 and so we have it in a try and accept block.
 So here's how the code runs.
 So the input runs, we type in a good file name,
 it comes in here.
 This works, and so it skips the accept,
 and so it runs the code and prints out the count.
 So that's the good pattern.
 The bad pattern is here, where we type in a bad file name,
 it comes in the try accept, this file name is nanabubu,
 and it's gonna blow up, so this line blows up,
 so it jumps down into the accept code,
 prints out, file cannot be opened, so it prints this out.
 Now this quit is really important,
 because if we don't put this quit in here,
 it's gonna continue down here,
 and that's gonna blow up here,
 'cause file handle is not defined properly at this point.
 And so what we have is we have this quit,
 quit is a special function where it comes in
 and never returns.
 So this is a way to terminate the entire Python program
 silently with no trace back, right?
 So we put in our own error message,
 so we look like we're professional,
 say we could not open this file, and then we stop.
 If you don't, it's gonna come down here,
 and it's gonna trace back right there, it's gonna blow up.
 So the quit is useful when you want to stop executing,
 because you've detected some kind of an error.
 So that's a quick zoom through opening
 and reading through files and doing some patterns.
 Most of the rest of the programs in this course
 are going to say open for rstrip,
 look for, and then do something interesting.
 That's going to be our loop that we're gonna do
 over and over and over again.
 And now we see how there's looping, and if,
 and iteration, and variables are starting to come together,
 and you can actually sort of do a program
 that does something useful.
 But, before we get to too many more programs,
 we gotta switch a little bit, switch gears,
 and talk up next about data structures,
 and that is the shape of data,
 and how we can use more intricate and complex variables
 to help solve our problems.
 (gentle music)
 (jazz piano music)
