 - Hello, and welcome to Python for Everybody.
 My name is Charles Severance, I'm your instructor.
 And in this particular video,
 we are going to do exercise 7.1.
 And this, honestly, even though it's a really simple exercise,
 is one of my favorite exercises in the book,
 because in chapters one through six,
 we've been just kind of learning the basic mechanics.
 It's like we just, you know, it says bonjour,
 and we say bonjour, and it's, we're learning,
 but it's not very fun, because we're not really solving it.
 So this is our first program that's going to read a file
 and do something with it.
 And the only thing we're going to do
 is we're going to convert it to uppercase.
 So it's just a really simple file, okay?
 So here we go.
 But the nice thing, so this is important though,
 I keep it simple because you got to figure out
 how to manage files.
 And that's the payoff for everything
 that we've done up till now.
 So let's close that one, and say file, new folder,
 EX0701, welcome to files.
 Here we are in files, file, new file.
 And I'm going to say file, save as,
 and put it in EX0701.
 And I'm going to call it, I could probably come up
 with a better naming convention than these things,
 but it works for me, and I'm a programmer.
 So here we have this file.
 Let's start up a shell, a terminal program,
 command line in Windows, shell in Unix, CD desktop,
 CD Python for everybody, folder in the desktop,
 oops, py4e, cd ex07 tab to get me to that.
 I'm in this working directory,
 and I have these files in there.
 And so I say, Python three,
 Python three, EX07.
 I saved this, so it's an empty file.
 Python's perfectly happy running absolutely nothing,
 because I guess you've made no mistakes.
 Okay, now, here's the key thing.
 We have, in this situation, we've got to have this file.
 And this version of the website has pythonlearn.com.
 This could also be py4e.com.
 But what I'm going to do is I'm going to control click on this,
 control click, open link in new tab, okay?
 So now I have this new tab, and this is the file.
 Okay, and this is the file that we're going to read.
 We're going to read this file, okay?
 Lots of stuff in this file.
 You're going to get to know this file really well.
 The key is, is we've got to put this file in this directory,
 because this program is running in this directory,
 and this program needs to open the file.
 And this is where if you've got some magic little button
 and whatever, click, run Python,
 it doesn't know what directory it's running in,
 and that's, so we've got to get this file in directory
 so the program runs in the same directory
 so it can open the file we're looking at, right?
 So here's the directory we want to go to.
 And I'm going to say, so I've got this file sitting here,
 and this works for text files.
 Once they're sort of viewable in the browser,
 I'm going to say file, save page as,
 and I'm going to go to my desktop.
 Make this a little bigger.
 Python for everybody.
 EX0701.
 And you'll see this is sitting here,
 and I'm just going to say save.
 So that's now been saved as if I downloaded the file.
 So let's go into the terminal and do an ls.
 And so you see that by my action here in the browser,
 I have saved a file into the exact same folder
 that I've got the code for 7.1.
 So now I can open this file
 and I can make sense of this file, okay?
 So I'm going to Adam, and you see Adam even sees the file.
 So now I can even open the file in Adam.
 And here's the file in Adam.
 Adam knows how to read these text files.
 And so away we go.
 So now EX07.py.
 This next few lines of code,
 you're going to get to know pretty well.
 And so I'm going to create a variable called the,
 come back, I was in the wrong place.
 I'm going to open the file with the open command.
 FH equals open mbox-short.txt.
 Now remember that open does not actually read the file.
 It kind of gives us this little portal
 where we can take a look at the file.
 And so if I print FH, you might expect
 that it would contain all this data, but it doesn't.
 It just is a file handle.
 So let me run that.
 Python three, EX07.py.
 Okay, so it knows some information.
 This, we'll learn later what objects are.
 This is a Python object that has some information in it.
 But the information in this object
 is not actually the file data.
 To read the file, we're going to write a while loop.
 I mean, a for loop, sorry, not a while loop.
 So we're going to say for lx.
 Again, that line is a good name here,
 but I want to use a non-pneumonic variable.
 For line in FH, and then I'm just going to say print lx.
 Okay, so this is going to loop through every line in the file
 and print it out.
 Gonna have to make this a little bigger now
 because it's going to be very chatty.
 So that is just a loop to read through.
 Maybe make this a little smaller.
 There we go.
 Oh boy, oh boy, oh boy.
 Missing parentheses and call to print.
 What am I doing wrong here?
 Well, the problem is, is I've been using Python two
 for so, so long that when I'm not drinking enough coffee,
 then I'm going to talk Python two.
 So the right way to do this,
 so let me just run this in Python, nevermind,
 I won't run it in Python two, I'll just fix it
 because print's code in parentheses in Python three.
 So I save it, and now let's run it again.
 Okay, so there you go.
 Now, as we scroll through this,
 you see right away the problem that,
 I'll get rid of that print statement right there,
 let's get rid of that guy, just delete him.
 We know how that line works.
 But you see this extra space, remember?
 Because in the file, there is a new line.
 So if you go over here, let me make this wide as well,
 there is a non-printing character at the end of every line
 called the new line, which is the way in files
 we store the fact that it goes back to the beginning.
 So it's like, character, character, character, character,
 go back to the beginning, that was a new line.
 Character, character, character, character,
 character, character, character,
 the next character's a three,
 the next character's a new line,
 and so it goes to the beginning of the next line.
 So that's the new line, and print,
 the print statement automatically adds a new line,
 and so in this case, we have one new line from the file,
 and then we have another new line that print's adding.
 But that's okay.
 We can say, ly equals lx.strip,
 actually rstrip, to strip the characters
 from the right-hand side, the non-printing characters
 from the right-hand side, and then we'll print out ly.
 So I'll clear my screen and run that again.
 So it is exactly the same thing,
 but you don't see all these blank lines.
 And so this, so ly is a different variable,
 I made a strip of it, and then I did print it ly
 instead of lx.
 If I had printed lx, I'd get these extra blank lines.
 And so this is a very common thing.
 You open a file, you loop through it,
 through all the lines in the file,
 and then you throw away the non-printing characters
 at the end of the line, and then you do something with it.
 So right now, we're just printing it.
 But what we're supposed to, in our assignment,
 is make it uppercase.
 And so let's just call the upper method
 to make them all uppercase, see if that works.
 And there you go.
 And so now the line has been shouted.
 There are only one line, and everything is fine, right?
 So it's been shouted, all uppercased.
 This little syntax here is what's called a method.
 This is a string variable, and upper is a method
 within the string variable that returns us
 an uppercased version of that.
 And again, that's object-oriented terminology,
 and we will learn about that in an upcoming chapter.
 But for now, we just sort of type it and understand it,
 and later we'll understand better
 that there's a whole series of things you can do
 after this dot for a variable in Python.
 And so there you have the exercise 7.1
 for the book Python for Everybody.
 I hope you found this useful.
 See you on the net.
