 (light piano music)
 - Hello everybody, welcome to Python for Everybody.
 We're doing a bit of code walkthrough.
 If you want to follow along, you can download the zip file
 for the code from our website.
 We are in the process of retrieving data
 from this Gmail server, one that I made a copy of,
 and we have so far spidered it all.
 We ended up with 600 megabytes of spidered information.
 We have ran a rather complex cleanup process
 that you probably don't need to fully understand.
 You can look at it for patterns, but in general,
 the cleanup process will be very sensitive to the data.
 And then we have this index.sqlite,
 which is 260 megabytes right now,
 and we're going to now do the easy, the fun easy bits here,
 where we're going to run little queries that just pull data out.
 These are much simpler.
 So part of what I wrote when I was doing this
 is I wanted to do some simple, basic calculations
 on the data to make sure, I really was sort of
 looking for anomalies, right?
 What was working, what wasn't working.
 So I wrote a series of really simple things
 like this gbasic, the gbasic code,
 just give me some basic data, right?
 So I wrote things down, and I counted things,
 and so, do I need urllibrequest in this one?
 I don't think so.
 Let's fix that bug, it's not there.
 No reason to put any of that stuff in there.
 So it just, it reads that index.sqlite,
 which is our cleaned up data.
 It reads through and makes a dictionary.
 This pattern you're going to see a lot,
 where I'm going to make a dictionary of ID to senders,
 save myself repeatedly looking at things.
 I'm going to grab the subjects, I've cached them all.
 I could have done this all with SQL,
 but I just wanted to do things faster.
 And now I'm going to go through each of these messages
 and make a dictionary of them.
 Gonna put a lot of stuff in memory,
 and then I'm going to do some counts.
 I'm going to see who is sent the most, right?
 The organizations, and so now I've got to
 go through all the messages.
 I am not actually, so you'll notice that I'm not
 selecting the body or the headers here.
 I am just getting sender ID, subject ID.
 I probably could have done this with a join,
 it would have been cleaner.
 You can do that, you can make that change.
 Do that with a join so it's cleaner.
 So I'm going through all the messages except not the body,
 so this is going to be really quick.
 And I'm pulling out the sender's ID.
 I'm breaking the sender into pieces.
 See my data's clean now.
 I cleaned it all up in the previous processes.
 And if I don't have two pieces,
 I continue and I get the domain name.
 So I have the person.
 I'm doing a basic dictionary histogram for the people
 and the domains.
 And then I'm going to sort them, right?
 With a sorted, and we're going to grab the key.
 We're going to sort it by the how many there are, reverse,
 and then print out the top few of the organizations
 and the top few of the people, okay?
 So we'll just run that code.
 Python g basic.py.
 Let's type, dump out the top 10.
 So we loaded 59,000 messages, 29,000 subjects,
 and 1,800 senders, and figured out the top 10 people
 and the top 10 organizations.
 And you can write various things like that
 to just sort of scream through your data
 and it's good to get sanity checking on your data.
 Okay, so that's g basic.
 Now I want to do g word.py, because that's kind of fun.
 G word.py, I don't need urllib.
 Why do I keep putting urllib in all these things?
 So we'll get rid of that.
 So this is really simple because I'm just going to go
 for the words in the subject line.
 So I go through index.sqli, I read in all of the subjects.
 And I make a dictionary of those,
 and then I go and find all the subjects.
 This, and then I'm doing this code right here.
 I'm pulling out the subject based on the message.
 And I'm doing this so that when the subjects
 are used more than once, I count the words more than once.
 This str make trans, I talked about that in an earlier
 chapter, this basically throws away a punctuation in numbers
 so that when I make my words, I don't end up with words
 that are like dashes, it compresses them down.
 Then I strip it, I convert everything to lowercase.
 This is basically just to keep too many words
 from showing up, then I do a split,
 and then I got accounts, a dictionary.
 So, this is a no punctuation, no numbers dictionary count.
 And then I just take the, and do a dictionary.
 And then I sort them in reverse order.
 And then I figure out what the highest and lowest is
 by running through a, I could have probably done this
 with a max and a min if I felt like it.
 And so now I have the highest and the lowest.
 Yeah, I should have done a max and a min on that one.
 Why did I do that?
 But oh well.
 And now I've got to spread out the size,
 and so I'm going to produce this file gword.js,
 which is needed by the visualization,
 because it's going to use d3.js, a word visualizer,
 and gword.js, I have to tell it how big the text is,
 and so I'm doing some text normalization,
 took me a little experimentation.
 So if I run this now, and I say python gword.js,
 and I say python3 gword.js, which is a lot better.
 Oh, not,
 python.
 Okay, so now I can go look at the gword.js,
 wherever that is, gword.js, yep.
 And so this is basically, it normalized all the frequencies
 and made it font size, these are font sizes now.
 And so this is just the data that's needed by this gword.jm,
 which uses this d3 visualization word cloud code.
 So this pulls in all my data,
 and then this is just some JavaScript that draws the picture,
 on the page, okay?
 And so the easy part now is to just open gword.htm,
 in a browser, it just so happens on a Mac I can do this.
 And so that gives me a word cloud based on that data.
 It kind of randomizes it, it shows different stuff,
 but it's using this, oops,
 using this data to generate how big those things are,
 and then using a bit of randomness
 and simulated annealing to lay it out,
 that's not stuff that we actually have to worry about, okay?
 So that's how we get to the point
 where we're seeing a word cloud from this.
 Now, we're going to do another visualization,
 and this time we're going to do a line visualization,
 and we're going to create a thing called gline.js
 and produce, with another HTML file,
 we're going to use D3 and produce that output.
 So let's say goodbye here, goodbye, goodbye,
 goodbye, goodbye, so gline.py, get rid of that file.
 So again, I'm going to preload all of the senders,
 in this case, and again, I could've done this with a join,
 probably should've done this with a join.
 I'm going to preload all the messages,
 the sender ID, subject ID, et cetera,
 I'll load those up, and now I'm going to read through,
 I'm going to have the sending organizations and the senders,
 and I'm going to split the senders,
 and I'm going to have the sending organizations,
 and then I'm going to do a simple dictionary
 as I accumulate the sending organizations
 by splitting the person's name into at signs,
 and then based on the organization,
 I accumulate it, and then I sort them,
 and I pull out the top 10 organizations, print those out,
 and now I'm going to produce, break this down into months,
 and I'll show you what this looks like in a second,
 let's go to the gline.js, so the month looks like this,
 okay, so the month looks like that,
 so that's the first seven characters of the date,
 so if we look at the date,
 the date looks like that,
 and the month is the first seven characters,
 and this is the data that I've got to give it,
 we'll clean that up in a second,
 that data will look better in a moment.
 Go back to gline.py, and so this is,
 we're doing a, the key is a tuple, which is the month,
 and which organization it is, that did it,
 and it's only in the top 10 organizations,
 and then we're going to do a,
 we're going to basically do a dictionary
 where the key is a tuple,
 and then we're going to sort it,
 sort by key in this case, not by value,
 that's in the months, we're going to sort that,
 and then we're going to write all this data out
 into gline.js, so let's go ahead and run this,
 and again, this is just the data that has to be written
 in a way that the JavaScript can understand it,
 Python, gline, Python 3, gline.py,
 okay, so top 10 organizations,
 so now let's take a look at that JavaScript,
 so this is what it looks like,
 so it just so happens that you got to tell it the,
 these are the data points, these are the lines,
 so this is the year, the line for University of Michigan,
 gmail.com, swinsburg.com, so this first column
 is that line points, and the next line points,
 so all this code was to get the data in such a way
 that I could produce this JavaScript file,
 because if I look at gline.htm,
 I need that data in that particular format,
 and I've got all this stuff, I make a line chart,
 and I draw it with this data, that data,
 I had to go read all the documentation
 on how to figure this stuff out, right,
 and that's the data that I'm going to use,
 and I had to figure this out,
 and I had to transform it and make it pretty,
 it took me quite a while to get this to work,
 and this is not a JavaScript class,
 nor a how to visualize in D3,
 but basically, we pulled all that stuff in,
 and here's the gline that came from the JavaScript,
 and then it makes an array to data table,
 and then that data table is what gline draws,
 so with no further ado, let's open gline.htm
 to show that data.
 So there you go, that's the Sakae developer participation
 from 2015 through 2005 through 2015,
 based on which organizations did the most commits in Sakae.
 And so I know that I haven't done this,
 all this code full justice, there's a lot of code here,
 the fun is just to kind of run it and see it,
 and then when the time comes,
 to come back and see the techniques that are used,
 when you're trying to build your own visualization pipeline.
 So I hope that you found this useful.
 You know, this is a lot of code,
 hard to explain in 15, 20 minutes,
 but I hope you take some time and look it over,
 and I hope you found all these videos,
 this is kind of the last walkthrough video
 for chapter 16 of the book,
 and so I hope that I will see you on the net.
 (gentle music)
 (gentle music)
