 (gentle piano music)
 Hello and welcome to Python for Everybody.
 We're doing a bit of code walkthrough and if you want to,
 you can get to the sample code and download it all
 so that you can walk through the code yourself.
 What we're walking through today is the PageRank code.
 And so the PageRank code,
 let me get the picture of the PageRank code up here.
 Here's the picture of the PageRank code.
 And so the PageRank code is a, has four chunks of code
 that are going to, five chunks of code that are going to run.
 The first one we're going to look at is the Spitering code
 and then we'll do a separate look at these other guys later.
 So the first one we'll look at is Spitering.
 And again, it's sort of the same pattern of,
 we've got some stuff on the web, in this case web pages.
 We're going to have a database that sort of
 just captures the stuff.
 It's not really trying to be particularly intelligent,
 but it is going to parse these with BeautifulSoup
 and add things to the database, okay?
 And so then we'll talk about how we run
 the PageRank algorithm and then how we visualize
 the PageRank algorithm in a bit.
 Now, the first thing to notice is that I've got to put,
 I put the BeautifulSoup code in right here, okay?
 So this is, you can get this from the BS4.zip file.
 There might even be a README, no,
 but there's a README somewhere.
 But you've got to use BeautifulSoup,
 you've got to put this BS4.zip,
 or you have to install BeautifulSoup for your stuff.
 So I provide this BS4.zip as a quick and dirty way
 if you can't install something for every,
 for all of the Python users on your system.
 So that's what it's supposed to look like.
 You're supposed to have it unzipped right here
 in these files, and I don't know what dammit.py means.
 That came from BeautifulSoup.
 If you look, it's in their source code.
 So I didn't, I'm not swearing.
 It's BeautifulSoup, people are swearing.
 I'm sorry, I apologize.
 Okay, so the code we're going to play with the most is,
 in this first one, is called spider.py.
 And we're going to do databases, we're going to read URLs,
 and we're going to parse them with BeautifulSoup.
 Okay?
 And so what we're going to do is we're going to make a file.
 Again, this will make spider.sqlite,
 and here we are in page rank, and else minus l.
 Spider.sqlite is not there,
 so it's going to create the database.
 We do create table if not exists.
 We're going to have an integer primary key,
 because we're going to do foreign keys here.
 We're going to have a URL, and the URL, which is unique,
 the HTML, which is unique, whether we got an error.
 And then for the second half, when we start doing page rank,
 we're going to have old rank and new rank,
 because the way page rank works is it takes the old rank,
 computes the new rank, and then replaces the new rank
 with the old rank, and then does it over and over again.
 And then we're going to have a many-to-many table,
 which points really back, so I call this from_id and to_id.
 We did this with some of the Twitter stuff.
 And then this webs is just in case I have more than one web,
 but that really doesn't make much difference.
 Okay, so what we're going to do is
 we're going to select ID URL from pages where HTML is null.
 This is our indicator that a page has not yet been retrieved.
 And error is null, ordered by random.
 And so this is our way, this long bit of stuff.
 And this, not all this SQL is completely standard,
 but this order by random is really quite nice in SQLite.
 Limit ones is just randomly pick a record in this database
 where this true is true, and then pick it randomly.
 And then we're going to fetch a row.
 And if that row is none, right,
 we're going to ask for a new web, a starting URL,
 and this is going to fire things up,
 and we're going to insert this new URL.
 Otherwise, we're going to restart.
 We have a row to start with.
 And otherwise, we're going to sort of prime this
 by inserting the URL we start with, insert into it.
 If you enter it, it just goes to drchuck.com,
 which is a fine place to start.
 And then what we do is we,
 what this does is it's page rank,
 is it uses this webs table to limit the links.
 It only does links to the sites that you tell it to do links.
 And probably the best for your page rank
 is to stick with one site.
 Otherwise, you will just never find the same site again.
 If you let this wander the web aimlessly,
 and so I generally run with one web,
 which this should be probably called websites.
 And I pull in all the data, and I read this in,
 and I just make myself a list of the URL,
 the legit URLs, and you'll see how we use that.
 And the webs is how many,
 what are the legit places we're going to go?
 'Cause we're going to go through a loop,
 ask for how many pages,
 and we're going to look for a null page.
 Again, we're using that random,
 order by random, limit one.
 And then we're going to have a,
 we're going to grab one.
 We're going to get the from ID,
 which is the page we're linking from.
 And then the URL.
 Otherwise, there's no one retrieved.
 And so the from ID is when we start adding links
 to our page links, we got to know the page we started with.
 And that's the primary key.
 We'll see how that primary key is set in a second.
 So otherwise, we have none.
 And we're going to print this,
 from ID, the from ID and the URL that we're working with.
 Just to make sure we're going to wipe out all of the links,
 because it's un-retrieved,
 we're going to wipe out from the links.
 The links is the connection table
 that connects from pages back to pages.
 And so we're going to wipe out.
 So we're going to go grab this URL.
 We're going to read it.
 We're not decoding it because we're using Beautiful Soup,
 which,
 we're using Beautiful Soup,
 which compensates for the UTF-8.
 So we can ask, this is the HTML error code.
 And we checked 200 is a good error.
 And if we get a bad error,
 we're going to say this error on page.
 We're going to set that error.
 We're going to update pages.
 That way we don't retrieve it ever again.
 We basically check to see if the content type
 is text HTML.
 Remember in HTTP, you get the content type.
 We only want to retrieve,
 we only want to look for the links on HTML pages.
 And so we wipe that guy out.
 If we get a JPEG or something like that,
 we're not going to retrieve JPEG.
 And then we commit and continue.
 So these are kind of like,
 oh, those were pages we didn't want to mess with.
 And then we print out how many characters we got and parse it.
 We do this whole thing in a try-accept block
 because a lot of things can go wrong here.
 It's a bit of a long try-accept block.
 Keyboard interrupt,
 that's what happens if I hit Control + C at my keyboard
 or Control + Z on Windows.
 Some other exception probably means
 beautiful suit blew up or something else blew up.
 And so we indicate with the error equals negative one
 for that URL so we don't retrieve it again.
 At this point, at line 103,
 we have got the HTML for that URL.
 And so we're going to insert it in.
 And we're going to set the page rank to one.
 So the way page rank works is it gives all the pages
 some normal value and then it alters that.
 We'll see that in a bit.
 So it sets it in with one.
 We're going to insert or ignore.
 That's just in case this pages is already,
 that the pages is not there,
 but and then we're going to do an update.
 And that's kind of doing the same thing twice,
 just sort of doubly making sure if it's already there,
 this or ignore will cause this to do nothing.
 And the update will cause us to retain it.
 And then we commit it so that if we do selects later,
 we get that information.
 Now this code is similar.
 Remember, we use beautiful soup
 to pull out all the anchor tags.
 We have a for loop, we pull out the href.
 And you'll see this code's a little more complex
 than some of the earlier stuff
 because it has to deal with the real nastiness
 or imperfection of the web.
 And so we're going to use URL parse,
 which is actually part of the URL lib code.
 And that's going to break the URL into pieces, come back.
 We use URL parse.
 We have the scheme, which is HTTP or HTTPS.
 If it's a relative, this solves relative references.
 This is solve relative references
 by taking the current URL and hooking it up.
 URL join knows about slashes and all those other things.
 We check to see if there's an anchor,
 the pound sign at the end of a URL,
 and we throw everything past, including the anchor away.
 If we have a JPEG or a PNG or a GIF,
 we're going to skip it.
 We don't want to bother with that.
 We're looking through links now.
 We're looking at all the links.
 And if we have a slash at the end,
 we're going to chop off the slash by saying minus one.
 And so this is just kind of nasty choppage
 and throwing away the URLs that we're going through a page
 and we have a bunch that we don't like
 or we have to clean 'em up or whatever.
 And now, and we've made 'em absolute by doing this.
 It's an absolute URL.
 This is just, you write this slowly but surely
 when your code blows up and you start it over
 and start it over and start it over.
 Then what we do is we check to see through all the webs,
 remember those were the URLs that we're willing to stay with
 and usually it's just one.
 If this would link off the sites,
 of the sites we're interested in, we're going to skip it.
 We are not interested in links that leave the sites.
 So this is like link that left the site, skip it.
 But now we finally here at page, line 132,
 we are ready to put this into pages,
 URL and the HTML and it's all good, right?
 And that one's going to be null right there
 because we haven't retrieved the HTML.
 This is null because this is a page we're going to retrieve.
 We're giving the page rank of one
 and we're giving it no HTML and that way it'll be retrieved
 and then we commit that, okay?
 And then we want to get the ID.
 So we could have done this with one way or another
 but we're going to do a select to say hey,
 what was the ID that either was already there
 or was just created and we grab that with a fetch one
 and say retrieve to ID and now we're going to put a link in,
 insert or ignore into links from ID to ID
 which is the ID, the primary key of the page
 that we're going through and looking for links.
 To ID is the link that we just created and away we run.
 So it's going to go and go and go and go.
 If you, let's go look at the create.
 Create statement up here from ID and to ID right there.
 Okay, so let's run it.
 Python three, oops, Python three, SpiderPython.
 So it's fresh and so it wants a URL with which to start
 and I'll just start with my favorite website,
 www.DrChuck.com.
 Now this basically, this first one you put in,
 it's going to stay on this website for a while, okay?
 So I'll hit enter and let's just grab like,
 let's grab one page just for yucks.
 Okay, so it grabbed that and it printed out
 that it got 85, 45 characters
 and it printed out that it got six links.
 So if I go to this and open it,
 open database and I go to code three
 and I go to page rank and I look at this.
 Oh, let me get out so it closes.
 So here, so notice this SQLite journal.
 That means it's not done closing
 so I'm going to get out of this by pressing enter
 and so you'll notice now that that journal file went away.
 Otherwise, we would not be getting the final data.
 There we go.
 Okay, so webs, let's take a look at the data.
 Webs has just one URL.
 That's the URLs that we're allowing ourselves to look at.
 You can put more than one in here if you want
 but most people will just leave this as one.
 Pages, so we got this first one and we retrieved this
 and this is the HTML of it and we found six other URLs
 in there that are DrChuck.com URLs, right?
 There was lots of other URLs in there
 but there were only five other ones that we found, okay?
 And so, and what we'll find is if we go to links,
 we'll see that page one links to two, links to three,
 links to four, links to five, links to six
 because the links is just a many-to-many table.
 So page one points to page two,
 page one points to page two, page one to three,
 page one to five, okay?
 So that's what happens when we have the first page.
 So let's retrieve one more page
 Now, it's, we could have started a new crawl
 but we're just going to, it's going to stay on DrChuck.com
 and I'll just ask for one more page
 and so now it went and grabbed.
 It randomly picked among these null guys
 and I'm going to hit enter to close it
 and then I'll refresh this.
 And oh, so it looks like we retrieved OBI sample
 and we didn't get any new links
 and so the links page, no, we didn't get any new links.
 So that page, whatever that was, OBI sample,
 had no external links.
 So let's do another one.
 Oh, one more page.
 So that one had 15 links.
 So let's take a look now.
 So now we have 15 pages.
 It picked this one to do, right?
 And now it added 15 more pages
 and then if you look at links,
 you will see that page four,
 which is one it just retrieved, links back to page one.
 So now we're seeing, this is where the page rank
 is going to be cool, four links to one,
 four links to, there's whatever, away we go, right?
 One goes to four, four goes to one.
 I should have probably put a uniqueness constraint on that.
 It's not supposed to, that duplicated that.
 Okay, so let's run this a bunch of times now.
 So let's run, let's just run it 100 times for 100 pages.
 It'll take a minute.
 So you'll see it's like freaking out on certain pages
 and not parsing them.
 You know, it's found its way into my blog.
 It's finding like 27 links.
 This table is growing wildly at this point.
 It's going to take us a while before we get to 100.
 It's kind of slow.
 Now the interesting thing is,
 I can hit control C at any point in time.
 Right?
 And so that blew up.
 But it's okay because the data is still there
 and so if we go back to pages, for example,
 and we refresh our data, we see we got a ton of stuff
 and this will restart and all the things,
 so if we search this, I sorted that by HTML,
 you see that there's lots of files that we've got
 and it's never going to retrieve those again
 because those have HTML.
 So then I can run this thing again and start it up
 and when I say control C, your computer might go down,
 your network might go down.
 There's all kinds of things that might happen
 and you just pick up where it leaves off.
 It just picks up where it leaves off
 and that's what's nice about this.
 Okay?
 So that's pretty much how this works.
 We've got this part running.
 We're seeing it flow into SpideredSQL Lite.
 We're seeing that we can start this and replace this
 and so what I'll do is I will come back in the next video
 and show you how all these things work together
 and then how we actually do the page rank.
 So thanks again for listening and see you in the next video.
 (gentle music)
 (gentle piano music)
