 - Hello, and welcome to our final chapter,
 Retrieving and Visualizing Data.
 In this chapter, we are going to basically
 bring this all together, databases, web services,
 code, loops, logic, and we're going to solve a problem
 that is a multi-step data analysis.
 We're going to find some data on the internet,
 might be HTML, might be an API or whatever,
 and we're going to write a relatively slow process
 that's going to pull data slowly,
 because these are all rate-limited.
 This is a slow and restartable process.
 So you can be a start this, and what we're going to do
 is we're going to have a database that's going to hold
 the data that we're pulling, and so this might take
 several days, actually, if you really have to do it,
 and then you'll build up your data in your database,
 and then what you tend to do is you tend to produce
 two databases, one is kind of a raw database that,
 you know, you really, all of its data columns are aimed at
 helping you figure out what you've got to retrieve yet,
 and what you haven't retrieved yet,
 so that's kind of a crawling, spidering process,
 and then you find that the data is kind of nasty and ugly,
 and you find that before you're going to do any analysis,
 you probably want to clean and process it,
 so in a lot of these, you're going to go from a raw database
 to a clean one, and this is going to be really large,
 and this is going to be really small,
 and you're going to do this sort of once, but slowly,
 and you'll do this as many times as you need,
 changing this program, cleaning the data up
 over and over and over again, and then you'll end up
 with really clean data, and it's relatively small,
 and you might run programs that'll loop through this
 to do visualizations or analysis or some things,
 or whatever, and so you'll actually sort of use this
 database as a source of information, okay?
 So that's the basic pattern of what we're going to work with.
 Now, this is what I call personal data mining,
 and if you're going to do this seriously,
 Python is used in lots of data mining activities,
 but if you're going to do data mining seriously
 with really, really large data sets,
 we're doing small to medium-sized data sets,
 as you might do sort of for individual personal research
 versus like an organizational research
 where you're processing the logs of a web server
 or something like that, and there's lots and lots
 of wonderful technology, and what's really cool is
 this technology just keeps getting better and better,
 because the whole data and mining data analysis,
 natural language processing field is just so hot right now.
 It's so awesome.
 We're going to keep it simple and do stuff for ourselves
 for now, and I gave you a bunch of sample code
 that's going to make it so that you can adapt
 this sample code to solve the problems
 that you need to solve.
 So like I said, this is more of a programming exercise.
 Data mining might be a lot more complex.
 If you're doing simple research,
 this might actually model what you do pretty well.
 So the first thing that we're going to do
 is what's called use the Google's JSON API for geocoding,
 and there are two versions of this.
 One version requires a key,
 and one version doesn't require a key.
 Google used to make all this data available for free
 but with just a rate limit, but now they're making,
 increasingly requiring a key.
 So I give you code in this zip file that kind of does both.
 If you really wanted to do something in production
 taking user entered places and names
 and getting precise latitude longitude coordinates
 so you can produce a nice little Google map like this.
 But since Google has made a rate limited API,
 I've actually pre-spidered a copy of the Google data
 and I have my own sort of fake Google API
 and so you can do your assignments
 and test all your code using my fake API
 which has no rate limits and has no problems,
 but it's only a limited set of the data.
 And so this is the basic process
 and it's one of those things that it follows
 that basic personal data modeling,
 personal data mining pattern.
 And so here's this API which is either Google or me.
 I've got my own Dr. Chuck version of this,
 Dr. Chuck.net version of this.
 And there is an input queue of the location.
 So this is the user data where they just put in the name
 of where they think they live,
 University of Tubigin or something,
 and so this is the queue of the things
 that are to be retrieved.
 And in my case when I built this map for the first time,
 there was like 15,000 and it took me days to get this
 and so it would stop.
 And so what I would do is I would read the first one
 into this geoload.py,
 check to see if I already had it in my database.
 If I didn't already have the database,
 I would go into the API, pull the data down
 and I would put it in the database
 and then I would go to the next one.
 The next one, the next one.
 So you know I might get 1,000 in my database
 and then it blows up or I'm told I can't go any further.
 So I wait 24 hours, I start it up
 and it reads the first 1,000 and says,
 oh they're all in the database already
 and then it starts at 1,000 and one.
 And then it adds that and adds that
 and then until it stops and so it took me
 several days of processing to get this data right.
 Now I didn't have a separate cleaning process
 because this data is pretty simple.
 I was pulling out the JSON and latitude and longitude,
 et cetera and so I didn't have to do two separate processes
 to clean this data up.
 It was clean enough right as I pulled it
 because I was talking to an API.
 If you're talking to the HTML,
 sometimes it gets nasty and ugly.
 And so then I wrote this program that just reads through it.
 It just does a select and you know reads through the stuff
 and it prints out some summary information
 and tells you what to do.
 It also prints out and you'll see this pattern
 because I'm visualizing using browsers, HTML
 and this happens to be using the Google Maps API
 and putting all the data in a little JavaScript file.
 So these end up being assignment statements in JavaScript.
 You can take a look at that file.
 And all the data shows up as assignment statements
 in the JavaScript and then when this HTML loads,
 it reads this file and puts up all those pins
 as long as you have access to the in browser JavaScript API.
 So the next thing we're going to talk about is PageRank
 which is spidering now HTML.
 We talked a lot about this.
 Spider HTML, get some links.
 And so up next, we're going to actually build a real database,
 full featured search engine using PageRank.
 (gentle music)
 (gentle piano music)
