 So now we're going to start learning
 the actual Python language.
 So what do we say?
 You can think of this as almost like writing,
 almost like writing a story.
 We're gonna start with a basic vocabulary.
 We're gonna talk a little bit about lines or sentences.
 And then we're gonna start talking about
 how to put those sentences together
 to make a coherent paragraph, as it were.
 And you just have to accept the fact
 that when I start teaching you this stuff,
 it's not gonna make sense for about six or seven
 more chapters, and so just sort of bear with me,
 except, I mean, I remember when I first learned,
 it went from me confused, confused, confused, confused,
 confused, holy mackerel, this is awesome.
 And so I expect many of you will go through that same thing.
 So just learn the first parts, accept the fact
 that it doesn't necessarily make sense in a big picture,
 and just bear with us, okay?
 So we'll start with vocabulary, we'll start to make sentences,
 and then we'll have little short stories and paragraphs, okay?
 And so this is a short story
 about how to count the words in Python.
 It's got a couple of paragraphs,
 and we are going to look at all of this stuff eventually.
 So we start with a set of reserved words.
 And what are reserved words?
 Well, they're words that Python expects
 when you use these words that they're gonna mean
 exactly what Python expects to mean.
 And what it really means is you're not allowed
 to use them for any other purpose than the purpose
 that Python wants, it's sort of part of the contract.
 It's like when you have a dog, and you go,
 what did you think of that television program?
 And the dog has no idea what you're saying,
 and then you say, do you wanna wait until Saturday
 to go to the veterinarian?
 And the dog still doesn't know what you say,
 and then you go like, how would you like to take a walk?
 And then the dog goes, walk, I know what that means,
 and then hits the door, right?
 And so the way the dog sees you is blah, blah, blah,
 blah, walk, blah, blah, blah, food,
 blah, blah, blah, blah, treat, blah, blah, blah, walk.
 That's kind of how Python looks at these reserved words.
 When you say class, it goes class, oh, I know what that means.
 Now, if I say zap, it's like, oh, zap something
 that you get to decide, or it's maybe a variable name.
 So reserved words are simply words that,
 when you use these words in Python,
 and there's only a few of 'em, like and, or del,
 or if, maybe, pass, maybe, in.
 A lot of these, you won't end up using them,
 it's just these are reserved for Python
 and part of the Python vocabulary.
 This is Python vocabulary.
 Now, when we move from words to sentences,
 you see that Python is a series of lines.
 A Python program is a series of statements.
 They have an order because the computer wants to know
 what next, what next, what next.
 So what next is start at the beginning.
 So I already talked about an assignment statement
 that basically says x equals two.
 This is not a mathematical statement.
 This is a directive to say, take this variable two,
 this value two, this constant two,
 and stick it in a location in your memory
 and remember that I asked you to name it x.
 X is a variable, something you made up.
 You chose that, but it's Python's job to remember it.
 So this says, go, whatever that x is,
 there's a two in there, now pull that x back out,
 add two to it, which makes it four,
 and stick it back in x, and so that makes this a four.
 So x is a four.
 And print x says, go look up that thing
 that was an x and print it out.
 And so these are like, each line has something to it.
 I'm using a reserved word.
 Well, actually, that's a function,
 but it's a reserved word, too.
 And so there's reserved words and all these things,
 and you combine these, there are operators.
 Plus is an operator, equals is an operator.
 These things do things,
 and we'll learn all this stuff in time.
 So the basic building blocks of lines of Python.
 Now, as we take these lines of Python and build them up,
 we end up making paragraphs, programming in paragraphs.
 And so one of the things that it's important is
 I showed you how to do interactive Python,
 so you just type Python, and you type a statement,
 and a statement, and a statement.
 Those get really tiring after about three or four lines
 of Python, because you start making mistakes,
 and you have to start over.
 So the better thing to do is to,
 as your program gets a little larger, to write a script.
 Put your Python instructions in a file,
 and then tell Python to read from the file,
 and then run the script as it's entered in that file.
 We tend to name these files with .py,
 and I've got a series of videos that you can watch
 to figure out how this all works.
 Like I said, you can type interactively to Python,
 and it's a great way to experiment with Python,
 check to see if a statement does what you think it does,
 but script is the way,
 after we are past one or two lines of code,
 we write it in files and then run it separately.
 So there are a couple of basic patterns,
 and it's really important to understand
 each of these patterns, and like I said,
 we'll teach you these patterns separately,
 and then we'll combine them together.
 And when you combine them together is when you say,
 oh, that's what a program is.
 So you have to suspend disbelief.
 We have a couple of different patterns.
 One is a sequence of steps.
 Do this, then do this, then do this.
 Conditional is like skipping something.
 Repeated does it over and over and over again.
 Computers are really good at repeating stuff.
 Much better than people, people get tired
 going over and over doing the same thing.
 And then we have store and repeated steps as well.
 And so if we take a look at this,
 and we take a look at a Python program,
 this is a piece of code, this is a little script,
 if you type this into a code,
 take this code, Python code, into a file and ran it,
 it starts at the beginning, and then it goes to the next line
 and the next line and the next line,
 and Python executes the scripts as you write them.
 So it says stick a variable, find a place called,
 in your memory called x, stick two into that, okay,
 then go to the next one, print that out,
 so the program's producing output.
 Now go read x and add two to it and stick it back in x,
 so x is four, then print that.
 This side over here, this is called a flowchart.
 I'm not gonna make draw flowcharts,
 I'm only gonna draw them a few times
 in ways that I think will help you.
 But you can think of it as Python,
 when it finishes something, it goes on to the next one,
 unless you tell it otherwise.
 Finishes this, goes on to the next one.
 Finishes this, goes on to the next one.
 Finishes this, and now the program is all done.
 And so that's sequential steps.
 You just type 'em in, Python runs it.
 They're important, but sort of uninteresting,
 'cause you can only get so far,
 and you can't really make them intelligent
 'cause it's always gonna do the next one.
 So the next thing we do is what are called conditional steps,
 and this is where it starts to get intelligent.
 I mean, where you are able to encode your brain
 into the computer like, oh, wait a sec,
 let's only do this step if something is true.
 And the syntax that we tend to use here
 is the reserve word if, if, okay?
 And so the if is like a little fork in the road.
 You can go one way, or you can go another way,
 and you're asking a question.
 So inside the if statement, right here,
 there is a question saying, is x less than 10?
 That revolves, resolves to a true or false.
 If it's less than 10, that's true.
 If it's greater than 10, it's false.
 And so then what we do is, if it's less than 10,
 we have this indented block of code.
 There's also this colon that tells us
 we're in the beginning of an indented block of code.
 And so what it basically says is,
 if this is true, run that code.
 If it's false, skip that code.
 So it can either run it or skip it,
 depending on this question that's being asked.
 Now, if you look at this code,
 it's pretty obvious what's going on.
 It comes down, x is five, if x is less than 10, that's true.
 So it runs this code and prints out smaller.
 And then it comes back here, deindents,
 the next basic sequential.
 This ends up being kind of a block.
 If x is greater than 20, this turns out to be false,
 because x is five, and so it skips this.
 So the bigger never comes out,
 and then it continues on, and then prints funny.
 So it comes in, runs this, skips this, and then finishes.
 So here is the last one we'll talk about,
 the repeated steps.
 We'll get back to store and retrieve later,
 but for now we're just gonna talk about three of the four.
 This is another program, and the key is is that
 we're gonna use this same choice where we're gonna go in,
 but then we're gonna run for a while,
 and then we'll have an exit condition where we get out.
 So this is repeated over and over and over and over again.
 And this is the essence of how we make computers
 do things that are seemingly difficult,
 while they're more naturally difficult for people.
 And so how do we encode this notion
 that we wanna do something, not forever, but for a while?
 How do we encode that notion?
 And so we do it in this way.
 So we have our statement, sequentially go to this while,
 while is a keyword, and it's asking another question
 that's a true/false question.
 Is n greater than zero?
 I read this as, as long as n remains greater than zero,
 keep doing this indented block.
 And you have a colon at the end,
 and then you have two lines of code that's indented.
 So that tells us what the loop is,
 and then this is now deindented.
 And so it comes in, and if this is true,
 if this is true, if this is true, it runs these two lines.
 Prints out n, n is five, and then it says
 n equals n minus one, which makes n be four,
 and it goes back up, and it goes up
 and it asks this question again.
 Is n greater than zero?
 If it is, continue on, and prints four,
 and then subtracts it, and it does that,
 four, three, two, and prints out one, then it comes up.
 And now, after this, n is now zero, n is now zero,
 and n is no longer greater than zero,
 so it takes sort of the exit ramp and goes down here.
 So it takes the exit ramp and goes to here,
 and runs the next line.
 Now, we're gonna cover all this again.
 So I'm just trying to give you the big picture,
 next couple of chapters, we're gonna hit
 all these things again, and we're gonna hit them
 in much more detail with a lot better information.
 This is now sort of like combining these.
 And again, I don't want you to really know this stuff,
 just you will know this in a couple of weeks,
 you will see this program again.
 But this shows you how we combine those patterns
 of repeated, sequential, and conditional together.
 So this is a bit of sequential code, comes in here,
 runs this, which happens to ask for a file name,
 then it opens the file, it creates a data structure
 called a dictionary, this is all sequential.
 Now, the four is another form of loops,
 so this is gonna loop for a while,
 and then this is, within a loop,
 we can even have two indents, and that's another loop,
 so these are like repeated, and then it goes,
 it dows down to the next sequential bit,
 then it does this, here's another loop, it's gonna run,
 and then here's a conditional, it's gonna run,
 and then when it's all done, we print out the last thing.
 And this is, of course, is the program that does,
 you know, the, it figures out the most common word
 and prints that most common word out.
 And so this is a Python short story, it reads some data,
 it reads the name of a file, it opens that file,
 it talks about how to make a histogram,
 and then it looks through for the most common word.
 So don't worry too much about this.
 Over the next couple weeks, we'll fill in the pieces
 so that you absolutely understand
 every single line of this code.
 So, this is a quick overview of chapter one.
 Stick with us, you realize, it will be chapter seven
 before this makes too much sense.
 You really have to trust that you are learning
 important things, and that it all makes sense
 when we bring it together, like in chapter seven
 in a few weeks.
 (gentle music)
