 - Hello, everybody, and welcome to chapter one
 of Python for Everybody.
 I'm Charles Severance, I'm your instructor,
 and I welcome you to this class.
 The basic goal of this class is to teach everybody
 how to program, regardless of your background.
 You don't have to be a math whiz,
 you don't have to be a computer expert.
 No matter how old you are or what your background is,
 we want to teach you how to program.
 So welcome to the course, welcome to chapter one.
 So the first thing to understand is that
 the purpose to learn to program is because
 computers want to do things for us.
 They are built and created and designed,
 and their hardware is set up so that they
 basically ask us what do you want to do next.
 If you grab your phone,
 your phone sort of does nothing
 until you tell it what to do.
 It waits for you, and it's just waiting for you,
 and all the hardware, computer technology around you
 is generally waiting for you.
 And we can use this for useful things.
 We could play video games, we could have it help navigate
 for our cars, some day we might even have self-driving cars.
 And it's really, in a sense, in my mind, silly
 if you spend your whole life not really
 understanding this technology.
 And I think it's important that we learn to tell
 these computers what to do, rather than just let them
 increasingly control our lives.
 And so, as we'll see, computers aren't very smart
 on their own, we humans are the ones
 that imbue them with knowledge,
 and what we need to learn to speak their language.
 It is much easier for us to learn to speak their language
 than it is for them to learn to speak our language.
 Although, with these cell phones, we're starting to see
 little bits where they can begin to understand,
 but you would be amazed at the 40 or 50 years
 that it takes, has taken us to understand,
 how to build programs to begin to understand.
 So, I'm bringing you into something
 where you are going to learn the ways of programming
 and the ways of the computer,
 because it's easier to teach you how to program
 than it is to teach this, how to work in your world.
 Even though, ultimately, the goal is
 to get this to do work for you.
 So, part of what I'm trying to do
 is move you from a user perspective,
 where you just look at the computer
 as something that someone else has constructed,
 and you are the user of, to the point
 where you construct new things.
 Now, the first kinds of things that you're going to construct
 are actually things to solve your own problems.
 And it's very popular now to work on data,
 and Python is an excellent programming language
 for data mining and data analysis,
 and that's a lot of what we're going to do in this course.
 Although, really, it's a gateway to all kinds of things,
 like, you know, artificial intelligence,
 or gaming, or navigation, or mobile applications,
 or entertainment, all kinds of things.
 But first, we have to learn to program.
 We have to move from using the computer as a tool
 to using the tools within the computer
 that allow us to change how the computer sees the world.
 So, there's a couple of reasons
 that you might want to be a programmer.
 Some of you are looking to improve your career,
 to be paid to work on programming.
 I've been a paid programmer most of my life,
 and I like it.
 It's a good job.
 You don't have to stand in the mud.
 You don't have to lift things.
 You have to use your brain.
 And I'll just say that it has been nice for my career
 to not be exposed to the elements,
 but to be able to work often wherever I want.
 But that's actually our secondary goal.
 Our first goal is to get you to write programs
 that solve problems that you have to solve.
 Maybe you have a job as an accountant,
 or a lawyer, or something else.
 And maybe you run across some data.
 Maybe there's some system that logs your time,
 and it's not quite giving the report that you want to give.
 And so you say, could I just grab the log data myself
 and write a program to do some analysis to say,
 what's the average this versus that,
 or the average of some other thing, right?
 And so, that's the basic idea
 that you'll initially use computers to serve your own ends.
 That makes it a lot easier to write programs,
 because you don't have to worry about
 a million users using your software.
 If it works for you, then we're happy.
 And so, it takes a little more training
 to write software for other people,
 or for thousands and thousands of other people.
 And so part of what I want to do
 is I want to change your perspective.
 You look at this from the outside,
 and you see it from the outside, and you click on things.
 I want to turn this around,
 and I want you to be the person inside this
 looking out at the world.
 And as a programmer, we are making things
 inside these computers for the world.
 And so we want to pull you into being part of this.
 We want you inside this, or thinking inside this.
 And what you learn is that if you're inside this computer,
 and you are taking your instructions to build programs
 to be used by the human outside the computer,
 you have things that you need to take advantage of.
 There's things like the central processing unit,
 the memory of this system,
 the network connection of this system,
 the disk drive, or permanent storage on this system.
 And as a programmer, you are kind of mediating
 between all those internal resources that this has,
 that are not very smart, but highly powerful,
 and mediating with what that user wants, right?
 And so we take the end user, and we programmers,
 we serve the end user, but the computer serves us,
 so together, between us and all the computer's resources,
 we can serve the needs of the end user.
 And we do this by writing code, or programming, okay?
 And what is that?
 Well, programming is a sequence of instructions
 where we are giving instructions
 to the resources inside the computer
 in a way to accomplish the goals of the end user.
 And remember, sometimes we are our own end user.
 It's not just, you're not always doing a startup,
 you're not always writing a mobile gaming system.
 Sometimes you're writing something for yourself,
 but that's okay.
 So sometimes you're writing something to solve a problem,
 you're like crafting, you're doing something
 that you could do by hand or manually,
 and you're making some clever little 25 or 100 line program,
 and you're putting that in.
 Other times, like when I work on
 the open source learning management system, Sakai,
 it is my creativity.
 I've got an idea, and I want to share it with a million users,
 and so I write my code for an external audience.
 And so code is that sequence of instructions
 that the computer itself doesn't know
 how to hand a roster out, but I can write code
 that will hand a roster out by looking at the data
 that's inside this computer, inside this application.
 And so if you think about programs,
 we have programs for computers and programs for humans.
 And a number of years ago, now I'm,
 sooner or later this will be me showing my age,
 this is an example of the Macarena.
 And the Macarena is a song that effectively
 is a sequence of instructions.
 You put your left hand out, you put your right hand out,
 you put it on the shoulder, you wiggle, wiggle, wiggle,
 and you spin around and you do things.
 And this, this is a program for people,
 and so I want you to take a quick look at this
 and see if you can find anything wrong
 with this particular program.
 So look really closely.
 So I'll show you.
 It's got some typographical errors in it,
 and we as humans are really good at reading
 or hearing typographical errors
 and correcting them automatically and instantly.
 And, but computers are not.
 Computers are extremely literal.
 If it saw this ham instead of hand,
 it would think what's a ham?
 And why am I going to hit someone
 in the back of the head with a ham?
 And why would I take my left hand and hit somebody?
 That's, you know, these are all bad things.
 But the computer is going to take us very literally.
 And so we have to be really precise.
 And the computer just doesn't know the difference
 between what we mean and what we say.
 So we have to be very precise.
 And this is one of the great frustrations that people have
 when they first start using computers.
 And so we have to get this right.
 We have to get these little bits of text
 exactly the way they are.
 Computers will blow up with syntax errors.
 And they seem to make quite a fuss
 when you make the tiniest of errors.
 But you'll get used to that.
 I mean, that's because, not because you're bad
 or you're less than awesome.
 It just means the computers can't compensate
 when you make small mistakes.
 And so you got to get used to the fact
 that the computer is sort of intellectually
 not as strong as you.
 And so it gets confused really easy.
 Even though when it gets confused,
 it says seemingly mean things to you.
 So you'll get used to that.
 Okay, so the first thing I want to do
 is I want to throw up some text.
 And I want you to, while this text is up,
 I want you to count the number of each word in this text
 and tell me what the most common word is in this text.
 Okay?
 So here we go.
 (soft music)
 (soft music)
 Okay, so I kind of made that hard on you on purpose
 by moving around and distracting you and confusing you.
 But even if it's not moving at all,
 it's a little bit tricky to do.
 You probably stare at it a couple of times.
 Your brain is going back and forth and back and forth.
 And so text analysis is one of the great things
 that computers are very, very good at.
 And some of the things that they can translate text.
 And that's because they've looked at a lot of information.
 So looking at text is actually something
 computers are really good at.
 And so if we take a look at the kind of programs
 that we're going to write to do this kind of thing,
 this is something that humans are not naturally good at,
 but computers are super good at.
 Now, I'm not going to have you look at this code.
 I'm not going to, this code you will understand in a few weeks.
 But basically this is a set of instructions
 to open a file, read that file,
 read all the words in the file,
 create a histogram of all the words in the file,
 and then search through that histogram
 to find the most common word and tell us
 what the most common word is in the file.
 And in this clown file, the word the is the most common.
 It happened seven times.
 And here's another large file called words.txt,
 and the word to is the most common thing.
 And our goal is to get to the point
 where you can write this on your own.
 So you can say, you know what?
 I got a problem to solve.
 That is, what's the most common word in this file?
 I know how to start, and then I know how to finish.
 I know how to do the stuff in the middle.
 And we have to learn this kind of weird language,
 but when we do, we can count millions of words
 as easily as you count 20 words.
 So that's the fun of all of this,
 is to teach you this language
 so that you can solve that problem
 so that you don't have to solve it.
 'Cause you could solve it,
 but it's not something that you're naturally good at,
 and it's hard work.
 So up next, we're going to talk a little bit
 about the hardware architecture
 that you're going to be experiencing as you write programs.
 (light music)
