 - Hello, and welcome back to Python as a Language.
 You'll notice that I'm wearing a hat.
 And part of the story of the hat is that
 where I work here at the University of Michigan
 School of Information, my office is in this building
 called North Quad, and we call it quad-worts sometimes,
 because it's sort of got a square,
 it sort of imitates an Oxford quad.
 And so it seemed to me to evoke notions of Harry Potter,
 and when we first moved into the building,
 I joked in one of my classes that
 we should have a sorting ceremony for all the students
 as they come into North Quad for the first time.
 And so that was cool, and I thought that I would belong
 in Gryffindor like everyone wants to be in Gryffindor, right?
 They're the good guys.
 And my students told me that I couldn't be in Gryffindor,
 that I had to be in Slytherin.
 So you'll see me drinking tea throughout the course
 out of this teacup.
 It's my Slytherin teacup.
 I picked that up from Harry Potter World.
 I went down to Florida, and I visited Harry Potter World.
 And the reason that I was sorted by my students
 into Slytherin is also because I teach Python.
 And Python is like a snake.
 And so if you think about the people from Slytherin,
 they are capable of talking to snakes.
 And the class that we were doing the sorting
 was a Python class, and so it sort of made perfect sense
 that you would have to be in Slytherin
 if you were the Python teacher.
 And of course, your name is Charles Severance,
 and then that sounds kind of like Severus Snape.
 And so I just accepted that I'm in Slytherin, okay?
 So you all can be in Gryffindor, but I can't.
 I'm in Slytherin.
 So I'm the bad guy, or the good guy.
 Depends on how you look at it, right?
 And so what I'm going to do now is I'm going to, you know,
 bring you into Slytherin as well,
 because I'm going to teach you the Python language.
 Python is the language that we Pythonistas talk.
 It was invented about over 20 years ago
 by a fellow named Guido Van Rossum, and away we go.
 Now, even though I'm using this whole snake,
 Slytherin thing, it turns out that Python
 was not at all named for Harry Potter,
 because Python was invented, you know,
 almost two decades before Harry Potter was created,
 and it wasn't for the snake.
 It was actually Monty Python's Flying Circus
 as the inspiration for Python, the name Python,
 and because Guido Van Rossum really wanted
 to create a programming language,
 that while it was powerful underneath it
 in its very nature was a very powerful language,
 he wanted it to be a language that was fun,
 and he wanted it to be a language that was approachable.
 And so that's why Python recently has become
 so absolutely popular,
 and it's easy to learn, but it's also powerful,
 and that's sort of the magic of Python,
 is the ease of learning it, the brevity of the programs,
 the shortness of the programs, and the power,
 and so we are going to become Pythonistas.
 Now, as you learn to be a software developer
 using the Python programming language,
 you are going to encounter syntax errors,
 and I remember when I used to get syntax errors,
 and I remember my first programming class,
 and I would type on card,
 and I would upload those cards to the computer,
 and the computer would say, "You're not worthy."
 And I'm like, wait a sec, those are pretty good cards,
 how could you be so critical of me?
 I'd say syntax error, and I really got sort of
 a really bad attitude that somehow
 this computer didn't like me,
 and that I would make cards, it would complain,
 and I would make changes to the cards,
 and it would still complain,
 and I'd make changes and it would still complain.
 I'm like, how can I win in this situation?
 And you're going to feel the same thing.
 You're going to absolutely feel the same thing.
 You're going to be struggling, you're going to be like,
 how come this computer hates me?
 Let me assure you right now, the computer doesn't hate you.
 The computer actually loves you.
 It just is not very good at showing how it loves you,
 or telling you how or why it loves you.
 And so syntax errors are not so much
 Python telling you that you're bad,
 or that you're an inadequate programmer,
 or you should find something else to do.
 It's really Python's admission
 that it doesn't understand what you're trying to say.
 And so you got to get used to that.
 And it's frustrating, but you got to get used
 to the fact that syntax errors are your friend.
 Python is saying, hey, I got to line seven,
 and I was doing fine up to line seven,
 but boy, in line seven, there's some little thing.
 I don't know what the word else means in this context,
 or you didn't indent it, and so I'm kind of confused.
 What did you mean?
 Please, please, please help me.
 And so it's so much easier for you to learn Python
 than it is for Python to figure out what you mean
 when you're writing code.
 So we have a number of different ways
 to sort of encode our instructions when we talk to Python.
 One is we just run Python interactively on our computer.
 Hopefully by now you've got it installed,
 and you just type Python at a command prompt.
 So either a Windows command prompt,
 or a Linux command prompt, or a Macintosh command prompt.
 And I got some examples of how to sort of
 get this all started, get Python installed,
 and away you go.
 Now you'll notice when you run the Python interpreter,
 the three chevron prompt,
 Python is asking you what next, right?
 This is you, it's saying I want to talk to you,
 I want you to tell me some Python to do.
 If you know the Python language,
 you know what to say right here.
 Now if you know Python, you can type these languages.
 You can say, oh, x equals one,
 which really means go find a little piece of memory,
 label it x, and stick one in it.
 Print x is like go find that thing where you labeled it x,
 and bring me back that number,
 and tell me what I stored in there.
 Now why you want to do this?
 That's a different question.
 And these are very simple things.
 It's going to take you a while to get the big picture
 of why we're doing this.
 So just trust me that you want to learn these statements,
 and then later we will successfully
 turn those into a program.
 So x equals x plus one, the third line there.
 X equals x plus one is not as it seems in math.
 It basically says, hey, go grab the old value of x,
 add one to it, and stick it back in x.
 That's what that means.
 So equal sign really has kind of an arrow to it.
 And then we say, hey, go look up that x thing
 that we just did, and print that out,
 and then we're going to say quit.
 So that's us talking to Python.
 Now, you can type just about any crazy stuff you want in here,
 and Python will be unhappy and talk to you.
 So what we're going to do next is we're going to start talking
 about the actual language of Python,
 and what it is that we have to say
 to make Python happy when we're talking to it.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
