 - Hello and welcome to Python Objects.
 I'm Charles Severance and we're well on our way
 to getting through all this material in the Python.
 So this lecture is in a weird place.
 I even debated where to put it in the book.
 I don't really want to teach you how to write
 a lot of object-oriented programming,
 but we're going to start using objects
 and I want to be able to use the terminology.
 And so as much as anything, this lecture is about terminology
 and understanding the words, things like methods
 and method signatures and variables and inheritance.
 And so think of this as a terminology lecture
 rather than a learn how to program or learn how to use this.
 It's not something you're going to figure out right away
 and there'll come a time when you as a programmer
 really want to start using object-oriented programming.
 It's really a powerful and wonderful technique,
 but I think it's too early as a beginning programmer
 to really say, oh, let's write a bunch of objects.
 So just relax and enjoy and learn this material
 and think of it as sort of a theoretical thing
 rather than a how to program thing.
 And so part of this is we're going to start reading
 data structures, and I mean data on how to use
 all these libraries, et cetera.
 We're going to see the word objects, right?
 And then we're going to start hearing them.
 And I want you to be able to read the Python documentation
 so that you understand what's going on.
 And so the word objects should make sense to you
 even though you're not going to write
 a lot of object-oriented programming.
 And so page upon page upon page,
 database stuff which we're going to talk about soon
 is uses objects all over the place.
 And the beautiful soup talks about uses objects.
 We've kind of been using them and I've been waving my hands
 and I use the word method without defining it,
 but now it's really time to define it and go to it.
 So I want to review from the very beginning
 what we think of as a program.
 So the classic program, my favorite little minimum program
 is our little elevator floor converter
 which converts from European elevator floors
 to United States elevator floors.
 And the key to this is that it's input, processing,
 and output, and this is a good way to model any program.
 And in that process we've got variables
 and we've got logic, we've got algorithms,
 we've got loops that we write, we've got all kinds of things.
 And we construct a series of steps to achieve some goal.
 In object-oriented, and frankly you've been using
 object-oriented all along, the program has lots of objects
 and we're sort of putting stuff into these objects,
 taking stuff out of one object
 and putting it into another object.
 And you've actually been doing this all along.
 As soon as you're looking at dictionaries and lists,
 you're doing objects.
 And so an object is quite a little thing,
 it's sort of its own little space inside of a program
 that contains code and data.
 And so we're working together,
 all these objects are now working together.
 It's a bit of self-contained code and data
 and it is one way to take a very complex problem
 and make it easier by breaking into separate things
 that can be engineered and developed separately.
 So you've been using string objects
 or maybe you'd use Beautiful Soup or something.
 These are powerful capabilities
 and if you had to look at all of them,
 it's just hey, here's a thing, use this object,
 it'll do these things for you
 and there's lots of details inside of it.
 Just don't look at it, don't worry about it.
 And so there's boundaries, the things that you can use,
 things that you can look at,
 and things that really you don't bother looking at,
 you go read the documentation and use it and away it goes.
 But then someone had to write that
 and so they built an object.
 So what we're going to do is look a little bit
 under the covers of what it takes
 to build some of these objects.
 And so if we think of this program
 that originally just sort of did processing,
 we can think of it as having some kind of an input, right,
 coming into our program.
 And we have a string object, a dictionary object,
 maybe eventually some objects like a database object
 or an object that we eventually define.
 And you can think of us, we're receiving data,
 it comes in an object which is a string object
 where we start putting the strings in dictionaries
 and do whatever, we pull out a list of them.
 And so you can think of data as moving between these objects.
 And like I say, even strings in the first week,
 first lecture, first week, first everything,
 we were using objects and we've been using them all along.
 And so you can think of every string and every dictionary
 as a little program all by itself
 that has a bit of code and a bit of data.
 And so a string has the data which includes
 all the characters that make up the string,
 but then there is a method called upper
 that does uppercase or rstrip that strips off the right,
 a white space from the right.
 And so it's like they're almost little programs
 that have inputs and outputs themselves
 and we can make lots of them.
 And there's lots of cooperating objects
 that make up an application.
 And one of the nice things about the object-oriented pattern
 is that they form boundaries and within the boundaries
 if you're inside the object you can say,
 "Look, I'm going to build you a string object
 "or a database object or a beautiful soup object
 "and I'm going to build this capability
 "and I'm going to give it to you in the form of an interface
 "and I'm not really going to care how you use it."
 And so we have this sort of visibility wall
 where I'm going to make an object and I'm going to let you use it
 and the maker of the object doesn't necessarily
 have to know every single thing
 about the use of that object.
 But so just like inside the object,
 they don't have to worry about what you're doing
 with the object outside of it.
 When you're outside the object you don't have to worry
 about what's going on inside of it.
 We, as the user of the object, we talk to its interface
 and we get things from it and give things to it
 and use functionality within that object.
 But we don't have to look inside of this.
 We can just say, "Oh, it's a nice little magical thing."
 We read the documentation, we read a webpage
 and it told us to do this, this, and this
 and away you go.
 And so it is sort of this isolation boundary
 that works both for the programmer who's writing the object
 and the programmer who's using the object.
 And so it's a very nice pattern.
 And so you'll see how we're going to build code
 and we're going to group it together
 and then we're going to be using it
 sort of as a big blob of stuff.
 So some definitions in this space,
 words that I want you to understand.
 When we're going to create one of these things,
 one of these objects, instances,
 that has some data in it and some code in it,
 we have to be able to define the shape of this object.
 What code will each object have in it
 and what data will each object have in it?
 And that's called a class.
 The key to a class, and this little picture
 that I've got up here in all these slides, is a key.
 The class is a template.
 It's not the thing itself.
 So it's a cookie cutter.
 It knows a lot about how cookies are made.
 And if you have cookie dough and you hit the thing,
 then you make as many cookies as you want.
 And so this nice little cookie picture
 is a great mental model of how it works.
 The class, the class, oops.
 The class is the template.
 And then the object are all of the cookies
 that are made from that template.
 But the template defines the shape
 and the nature of the class.
 So the code that we write is going of each of the objects.
 The code we write is the class code.
 And then later we say, oh, let's take that template
 and make ourselves an object or an instance.
 Now, as we're defining a class,
 we have two basic things that we put in the class.
 And there's a couple of different terminologies for this.
 One is method, which is code.
 It's like a function that lives inside of a class.
 Not a function that lives inside your program,
 but one that lives inside of a class.
 And so this is a scoping thing.
 A method is really just a function.
 But it lives inside the class.
 And then fields or attributes are data items
 that are in the class.
 And so they're variables that are defined in the class.
 You can define variables outside the class
 that you use in your program.
 You've been doing that all along.
 But if you're saying, I'm going to build this capability
 and it's going to have data inside of it and code inside of it,
 the code is the method or message and field or attribute.
 And they're just, oops.
 There are just two different sets of terminology.
 Method is what I'll probably use.
 If you look in some object-oriented patterns
 like Smalltalk or Apple, they often will call these messages.
 So you can either access a method
 inside of a class or an object,
 or you can send a message to the object.
 The same is true for field and attribute.
 It's just a chunk of data that's in the object
 that you may or may not have the right to access.
 So, like I said, a class is a template.
 It defines the characteristics of the objects
 that we're going to use to make it.
 It is the cookie cutter.
 So dog is sort of the exemplar.
 Lassie is a particular dog.
 And so dog has fur and dog barks
 and dogs do all these things.
 And so we know something about dogs,
 but it doesn't mean we have a dog, right?
 And the class is a more abstract concept
 that when it's time to get a dog,
 we know certain things about dogs.
 Instances or objects are once we say,
 oh, time to make a cookie from the template.
 Time to get a dog, we know something about dogs.
 That's the creation of an object
 and we call them instances, instance of a class.
 So the class doesn't exist, but we say,
 make me a new object using this class as its template.
 Oh, and now make me another one.
 And so we can have many, many objects from one class.
 So just like many cookies from one cookie cutter.
 Method is a bit of code that lives inside of an object.
 It's like a function,
 but it's scoped to within the object or within the class.
 Okay, so that kind of gets us started
 on some of the terminology and we'll come back
 and we'll take a look at how we write code
 that's object-oriented.
 (gentle music)
 (gentle piano music)
