 Okay, so now that we've gotten through the definitions,
 let's work into some sample code.
 But hey, look at this.
 We've got ourselves a cookie cutter and some cookies.
 So, remember that a class is a template.
 It's not the actual thing.
 An object is an instance of a class,
 so you have to take the class and do something
 to make the object.
 And actually, you can see here's some other classes.
 There's clearly a sort of a snowflake class
 and a gingerbread man class.
 That's an object, object, object.
 Somewhere out here, there is a snowflake class
 and a gingerbread class, but we got a snowman object
 and a snowman object and a snowman class.
 So, class is the template.
 Object is the instance.
 So here's a bit of Python code.
 So let's take a look at what we got here.
 Class is a new reserved word, kind of like def.
 We have the name of the class.
 That is a name that we choose.
 We're going to, that's the name by which we'll refer
 to this class for the rest of this program.
 And it has a colon at the end of it,
 and which means it starts an indented block,
 which ends when we de-indent.
 Inside the class, there are generally two things.
 There is some data, and this just looks like
 an assignment statement in the class, x equals zero.
 And then there is a def.
 Def, this looks just like a function,
 and then it starts with a def, has a colon, indents.
 So that function finishes right there.
 The difference is, is this is a method,
 because it lives inside of a class.
 And so, there is no function called party.
 There's a function called party within party animal class.
 And we'll talk in a second about this self thing.
 It is the way that inside this code,
 we refer back to that variable.
 So this is not actually executing any code.
 It's sort of remembering the template,
 defining the class party animal.
 This is what we call constructing.
 We're constructing, using the party animal template,
 or class, we are making a party animal.
 And then once we make that, we stick it in the variable an.
 And then we're going to call this party animal,
 this party method, three times one, two, three.
 Now this self thing, and we'll take a look at the self.
 The self ends up being an alias of an.
 And so you can look at this syntax.
 It's just kind of an equivalent of this syntax.
 It's calling the party method
 within the party animal class,
 and passing the instance in as the first parameter.
 And so self ends up being an alias of an
 each time these are called.
 This syntax is a short version of that syntax.
 So if we watch how this executes,
 it starts up here, it just defines it,
 and then we construct it.
 And that's what basically constructing it,
 we know how to construct it because we look at the class,
 and we make a variable x, we make some code party,
 and then we construct that, that's what the party animal does,
 and then we assign that into an.
 And so an is now pointing at that.
 Then when we call the party method,
 that basically takes this an and passes it in
 as the first parameter, which is used as self.
 And so self.x, which is what we're doing
 in this line right here, self.x is a variable.
 x starts out as zero, x starts out as zero,
 because when it was constructed it was set to zero.
 So we're in here, an is an alias of self,
 and now it looks up self.x, which is zero,
 adds one to it, and so this becomes one.
 And then we print so far, so far one.
 And then the code returns,
 and it goes down and does it again.
 And x becomes two, prints out so far two,
 comes back down, and does the last time, calls it again.
 So self.x is two, add one to it and stick it back in,
 so this becomes three, and we print out three.
 And then the program finishes.
 And so you can think of this as constructing the object,
 and then associating it with this an variable.
 Now, we've created this object,
 we can play around with things we've played around before
 with Durantype, we use Durantype to kind of inspect
 variables and types and objects.
 So, we've been using objects all along.
 We, this code here says, hey, make me an empty list.
 Well, it turns out that what we're saying is
 there is already a list class inside of Python,
 and we're constructing an empty list,
 and when we get back this empty list,
 we're assigning that into x.
 So x, in a sense, contains or points to an empty list.
 So then we say, hey, what is in x?
 What kind of thing is x?
 Well, it's a list.
 This is a thing, it's a list type.
 Let's have a list of things in them,
 and use append, and all the things we've been doing before,
 they're just objects.
 And then the dir, if you remember the dir,
 the dir is the capabilities.
 And there's all these internal capabilities
 that do things like implement the bracket operator, et cetera,
 those double underscore ones, we can ignore them,
 although you can even look them up
 and figure out what they mean if you feel like it.
 But the methods that we tend to call are in this class,
 and so things like x.sort, I've always told you,
 that is the sort method within the x thing,
 and the dot operator is the operator that we use
 to look something up within an object.
 And so you've been using the syntax all along,
 x.sort, dictionary.items, all of those are methods
 within the corresponding class.
 If we take a look at this line of code
 that we've been doing for a very long time,
 which says, oh, stick hello there into y,
 it's, if I reword that as more o-o or object-oriented,
 what this single quote does says,
 make me a string object and put some text in it,
 and then when that is done being constructed,
 stick that into y, right?
 And so y now points to a string object
 that's been pre-initialized to the string hello there.
 Now that's a long way of saying hello there ends up in y,
 but in o-o terms, we can talk about that.
 If we do a dir of that, we see a whole bunch
 of internal methods, which have double underscores,
 and then we see all kinds of methods that we've been using.
 We've been using methods like upper,
 we've been using methods like find,
 we've been using methods like rstrip, right?
 We've been using these methods.
 So we're going to like y.rstrip, parenthesis.
 Again, that's a method, that's an object,
 not a class, it's an object,
 and that is the object lookup operator.
 Now if we do the same thing to code that we've built,
 or a class that we've built,
 so now we have a party animal class,
 remember this up to here is just definition,
 now we construct it and we store it in an,
 so an is a variable that contains
 an object of type party animal.
 We ask it what type it is, and it prints out here,
 it says this is a class,
 and it's main underscore party animal,
 and this whole thing here is the underscore main,
 it's scoped underscore main.
 But you can see that you have made a new type.
 You built a type by using this class keyword.
 And then we use the dir, remember dir looks
 for capabilities, and again you will see,
 you'll see a whole bunch of underscore things,
 they have meaning, you can look them up,
 but eventually you'll see the two things
 that you've put in it.
 One is the method party, and the other is the attribute,
 or field x, and again these are the things
 that you can say an.x, or an.party,
 because this dot is the object operator,
 the object lookup operator that says,
 look up in the object an the thing x,
 or look up in the object an the thing party, okay?
 So up next we'll talk a little bit
 about how objects are created and destroyed.
 We also call that object life cycle.
