 Hello and welcome to yet another demonstration coding exercise.
 This time we're in chapter 10 and we are going to talk about tuples.
 So if you watched the chapter 9 exercise, I have in this folder that's in my desktop
 Py3, exercise 0901, I'm just going to make a copy of this file, I'm going to say copy
 that exercise 0901, let's just call this one exercise10.py.
 And so now I can just edit exercise 10 because most of what we're going to do in this sorting
 exercise, because what we're going to do now is we're not looking for the single largest,
 we're going to look for the top five.
 And we can do it many ways, but sorting is probably the quickest.
 So now I'll just run it just for my own sanity, exercise 10 and the 7.
 So now we're going to change, find the top 10 words, let's just do top 5, top 5 words
 by frequency.
 And so let's do this.
 We talked about this function called sorted, which iterates through collections and shows
 you things that are sorted.
 So let's just start by saying print sorted many.
 Let me start by, I'll print many and then I'll print a sorted version of many, right?
 There we go.
 So let's go ahead and run this and just do clown.
 So the dictionary key value pairs is the dictionary, but the sorted only is sorting the keys.
 So in a sense, when you pass a dictionary into sorted, it gets a list of the keys and
 it sorts those keys.
 So these are indeed in alphabetical order, but they've lost their numbers, right?
 And we actually don't really want them in alphabetical order.
 We want them in key order.
 We want the top five of these numbers, but then we want to go back to the words, okay?
 So that recalls that if you just wrote a for loop and iterated through the dictionary,
 you iterate through the keys.
 And actually a lot of times that works okay.
 So that's not going to work, okay?
 So the thing we're going to want to do is we're going to want to basically create something that
 we can sort that's going to sort by these numbers.
 And so if we take a look at the items, we can iterate through a set of tuples.
 Well, let's just say many.items here, okay?
 And then we'll do a sorted on many.items.
 And what that does is that gives us a list of tuples, which are key value pairs.
 And now the tuples are going to get sorted.
 So let's just run it again, oops, dx10.py.
 So if we look at this, the items gives us back not a list of keys,
 but a list of key value pairs in the form of a two tuple.
 So this little parentheses of 7 is a two tuple.
 And items gives us all of the key value pairs in a pair of tuples.
 And now what's happened is when we say sorted, well,
 they're in alphabetical order, clown, tent, the.
 So the sorted works now, and we didn't lose the values,
 except that it's sorting on the wrong thing.
 It's sorting on the keys, not the values.
 So there's lots of ways to do this.
 And this is not the quickest, but we're going to do it anyway.
 We're going to say for k,v in many.items.
 And then what we're going to do is we're going to make a new dictionary,
 we'll call this temp.
 And what I'm doing is I'm going to make a new tuple.
 Tuple equals parentheses, v,k, I'll print that.
 So let's just print many.items, and then we're going to loop through it
 in dictionary order, and then make reverse tuples.
 Okay, so now what we did is we looped through this, in a sense, items.
 Yeah, many.items, which is what we just printed out here.
 We looped through this, but then we're making a new tuple,
 which is simply reversed.
 Now, when tuples are compared, as we talked about in the lecture,
 the first item in the tuple kind of takes precedence, and
 then the more than there's ties, like one, one, one, then the second one.
 So these ones that were tied, that all have one,
 they will actually be sorted in alphabetical order on the second key, okay?
 And so now what I'm going to do is I'm also going to make a new list.
 Oops, I'm going to make a new list.
 And then I am going to do newlist.append top.
 And then I'm going to print out newlist.
 So I'm going to print it, and so all we're going to end up,
 it'll look pretty much the same if I got it all right, of course.
 Yeah, so we've got the old list which is the seven clown two ran two after one.
 And now we got the new list that is seven the two clown.
 It's exactly the same key value association.
 But now look what happens when I sort that, it has sorted newlist.
 And because the rules of lists and tuples and how tuples get compared,
 you're going to see that I have basically sorted it based on the key value pair.
 One after all the ones, came first.
 And then the highest number is the sevens and then the threes.
 And recall when I said there was a tie with these comparing tuples,
 then they would be in alphabetical order.
 So that's why one after is before one down.
 That's not just random, it literally is looking at the second piece of the tuple
 if the first one matches and that's how it sorts.
 Now the problem is, is that I really am looking for the top five.
 And so I could maybe print out the last five, but I could just say, hey there sorted.
 I would like you to go backwards.
 Reverse equals true.
 And now if I run it again, you will see that I told it to sort from high to low.
 And so seven thought is first, three car is second, three and a second.
 And you can kind of see the weird thing about the ties,
 which we're not going to worry too much about.
 But three car comes before three and, because three and three are tied.
 And car is reversed.
 We're not looking for the smallest, we're looking for the largest.
 And that's why three car comes before three and.
 So now that is sorted, okay?
 So now what I'm going to do is, I'm going to not print new list anymore.
 I'm not going to print many dot items.
 I'm actually going to take and say, cool equals
 sorted new list, true.
 I'll print cool, oops, I'll just run it again really quick.
 So we sort of see that the only thing we've got there in cool
 is the correctly sorted things that we want.
 So now what I want to do is I want to write a loop through cool
 that prints out the first five of these two tuples.
 So I'm going to say for, V comma K because they're reversed.
 In cool, starting at zero up to but not including five, first five.
 And then I'm going to say print, print K comma V.
 So since cool is a list of tuples,
 the iteration is going to go through each tuple, seven the, three car, three and.
 And I've got V comma K in a very specific order because in those tuples we're
 looping through, the value is first and the key is second.
 And then all I have to do is print them out.
 I made a typo there, it's supposed to be a colon.
 I print them out in the flipped order.
 But I'm seeing the first five sorted by value and printed out, okay?
 I'm guessing I forgot to save my file again because I'm like,
 I was expecting much more excitement than that.
 Yeah, so here we go.
 So we're iterating through the first five items of this list.
 There are the first five items of the list and yes, there's clown too.
 And we're not going to worry too much about that for now.
 But we're also flipping them at the same time.
 And so that's the output that I really want.
 So I think at this point, I can delete this line and
 get the output that I, tell me what you want, what you really, really want.
 I want my clown.text, the five most common words and their numbers.
 And in a sleight of hand magic trick, I can do the same thing for
 the intro of the book, cuz once you get the code going,
 Python really does not care how big the thing is.
 [SOUND] So those 226, 2 is 204, A, and away we go.
 So not too bad, a little bit to go through, just make sure you look at each line.
 And that's why I produce these videos where I put in one line at a time.
 Rather than you somehow look at this whole thing and you think,
 he says give me the top five words.
 And somehow your brain is supposed to just like whoosh this thing out.
 Like an artificial intelligence, right?
 And so I am not like artificial intelligence.
 I'm just plain old fashioned intelligence.
 And so I have to build these things one at a time, one piece at a time.
 And I still build it one piece at a time.
 I might ask artificial intelligence for help on this one and take the solution.
 But I just don't trust their solution sometimes.
 But be that as it may, I hope this was helpful to you and
 helped you understand dictionaries sorting and tuples.
 [MUSIC]
