 - Hello and welcome to Chapter 10.
 Now we're gonna talk about our third kind of collection
 called tuples, but tuples are really a lot like lists.
 There's not too much to them.
 They're really kind of reductionist version of lists there.
 So they function very much like lists,
 in that, you know, they have things,
 and the difference is, is there are no square braces.
 There is a parenthesis, round brace, or whatever,
 and they have positions zero, one, and two,
 just like a list, and you can look things up, X sub two.
 So X sub two is actually the third element here,
 and so that prints out Joseph.
 You can assign, you know, make a tuple here.
 This is the constant syntax for a tuple,
 and print that out, and the print statement
 shows you that this is a tuple, not a list,
 by showing you round parentheses,
 and a whole bunch of functions that work with lists
 work the same way with tuples.
 You can put a tuple at the end of an end statement
 in a four, as you might expect,
 and then it iterates through the tuples.
 Tuples maintain order, so it prints out one, nine, and two.
 So, literally, this bit of code here could be identical,
 whether it was a list or a tuple.
 It really would do the exact same thing.
 The difference between tuples are that they are immutable.
 Once you create the tuple, you can only,
 sort of, assign a tuple, but you can't modify it.
 You can modify a list, so if we take a look at a list here,
 we make a list that's nine, eight, seven,
 and we say x of two equals six, well,
 that just means this seven becomes a six,
 and that's just natural, meaning we can reassign slots.
 We can delete things, we can insert things,
 we can mutate them, we can change them,
 so they're changeable, right, they're changeable.
 But, if we try to do that same thing with a string,
 so we say y equals a, b, c,
 and we know that this is positions zero, one, and two,
 but if we try to say, let's change the c to a d,
 by saying y sub two equals d, that is not allowed,
 and it says it doesn't support item assignment,
 and this little bracket, you know, x sub two,
 is what they call item assignment inside of Python.
 And so, if we do the same thing, then,
 with a three element tuple, put that in z,
 and we try to change this slot to be a zero,
 it's gonna blow up, because it's the exact same thing,
 and that has to do with the fact that,
 once this assignment is made, this is not modifiable.
 Now, it turns out that the reason
 it's not modifiable is for efficiency.
 They take up less storage, they are quicker to access,
 and they're really designed internally, behind the scenes,
 in ways we don't really need to understand.
 They're just more efficient than lists,
 if all you wanna do is store a list,
 and look at it, and then throw it away,
 you probably should use a tuple instead.
 So, there's a lot of things that you can do with lists,
 that you also can't do with tuples,
 but they're really just a corollary
 of this notion of non-mutability.
 And so, like, you can sort a list,
 but you can't sort tuples.
 You can add a five to the end of three, two, one,
 can't do that in a tuple, but you can in a list,
 and flip the order, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot.
 So, anything that you can do to a list
 that modifies the list, not allowed for tuples.
 And so, you can take a look at the kinds of things
 that are inside, the methods that are part of each list,
 append, count, extend, index, insert, pop,
 some of these, many of these are modifying,
 and then count and index are the only ones
 that work for tuples.
 And so, tuples are limited lists.
 Now, at some point, there's gonna be a but here
 to say, "Why do we like them?"
 And the reason that we like them
 is that they're just more efficient.
 They don't have to build Python
 in its own internal organization of these objects.
 It knows that they'll never be modified,
 'cause when you make a tuple,
 you as the programmer are saying,
 "I'm never gonna modify this,"
 and Python won't let you do it.
 So, it's higher performance, better memory use,
 and to a beginning programmer, that doesn't really matter,
 but that's the reason.
 And so, we tend to use tuples in situations
 where we're gonna make a temporary variable
 and then temporarily use it just a little bit
 and then throw it away without really messing with it.
 And we tend to use lists to build things up,
 et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
 So, the other thing that's interesting about tuples,
 and we've actually sort of seen this,
 is that you can put a tuple that includes variables
 on the left side of the assignment.
 And this takes a little getting used to,
 but it's really cool.
 And no other language that I know of does this.
 So, if we say x comma y, that's a two-tuple.
 Both have to be variables.
 You can't put constants on this side.
 You know, it's like saying x equals four, y equals Fred.
 Right?
 So, what happens is, is you can put a tuple
 on the far side of an assignment statement.
 And the four goes to x and the Fred goes to y.
 And you say, what's in y?
 Well, y is indeed Fred.
 And so, this is like two assignment statements.
 Now, the way I've got this syntax,
 I would probably do two separate statements,
 just not to show off that I know how to do tuples.
 You know, and so, here's another one,
 and they just move correspondingly.
 If you don't have two here and you do have two here,
 well, if you have three here, or two here and three here,
 and you don't match the number there,
 you get in some trouble.
 Now, if you just say x equals tuple,
 then that is the tuple in the list.
 But this is just a simple, straight 99 value going into a.
 So, you can put tuples as the left-hand side.
 And you can even do things like
 return a tuple from functions.
 That's a real nice Python feature that I like a lot.
 Tuples are also related to dictionaries,
 as we've seen in the previous chapter.
 So, here we make a little dictionary.
 We make an empty dictionary
 by constructing an empty dictionary.
 Stick it in D, so D is sort of like this place
 that can hold key-value pairs.
 And we put csev, and there's a two in there,
 and chen1, and there's a four in there.
 So, we have this associative mapping
 between csev and two, and chen1 and four.
 All stuff we know.
 And now, we say, hey, we're gonna loop
 through the key-value pairs here,
 and we've seen this syntax before, k comma v.
 So, this is a tuple.
 So, you can think of this as each one of these things
 is going to get assigned into this tuple,
 which means the key ends up in,
 and the first one's the key, and the second one's the value.
 I use the variable kv all the time in code that I write,
 just for my own sanity.
 So, kv are gonna iterate successively
 through the successive keys and values in that.
 So, this is gonna run twice,
 and k is gonna be csev two, and chen1 four.
 The order just happened to stay the same.
 And so, if you say, what is in one of these things,
 you can actually take d items,
 the items method within that dictionary,
 and say, hey, give that to me back, and then print tups.
 And this is, it's a special kind of a class,
 but really, ultimately, it is a list of tuples.
 You know, this is two, this is the zero,
 and this is the two, the one, the first and the second.
 And then, within each thing you get, you have a two-tuple.
 And so, in a sense, this k and v are iterating
 through those things when we're putting d items here
 and d items there.
 One nice thing about tuples is that they're comparable.
 They're comparable in the same way
 that strings are comparable,
 meaning that they're compared from left to right
 with the leftmost or zero tuple being the most significant.
 And it doesn't compare any further than it has to
 if it's asking less than.
 So, if it's looking at, say, this first tuple,
 it starts at the left and says,
 okay, ask the question, tell me true or false.
 Is zero less than five?
 The answer is true.
 And so, the answer to this overall expression is true,
 and it doesn't even compare those two numbers.
 Those second and third number, they don't compare them.
 If, on the other hand, we're asking is this less than that,
 it only looks at the first one
 and asks if it can answer the question.
 And the answer is, well, they're both zero,
 and so I can't answer the question,
 so I have to go to the second one, second pair,
 and one is less than three, and so that means this is true.
 And it does not check this,
 even though 20 million is bigger than four.
 It doesn't matter because these are the numbers
 that caused the true to happen.
 And the same is true if you do this with strings.
 Again, we start the first one.
 So, Jones, Sally, well, that's the same,
 so we don't know the answer yet.
 And so, Sally, Sam, well, okay.
 S, S, oh, they're the same.
 A, A, they're the same.
 O, L, and M.
 L is less than M, so the actual letter
 that makes the difference here, the L and the M,
 and leads to us being true.
 And so it goes left to right,
 but then even when it's doing strings,
 it's going left to right.
 That's just how string comparison works.
 And if we say, is Jones,
 Jones, Sally greater than Adam, Sam?
 Well, we check the first one,
 and we check the J and the A.
 Well, J is greater than A,
 and so we don't have to look at anything else.
 We don't have to look at any more of these characters.
 We don't have to look at the second thing in the tuple.
 We have to look at, well, that is enough to be true.
 So it only scans until it has a definitive answer.
 It doesn't scan any further.
 So now, what we're gonna do
 is use this comparable capability
 to sort these list of tuples,
 and then bring this all back
 and connect it more to dictionaries.
 (piano music)
 (piano music)
