 - So now we're going to move from merely matching to matching and extracting.
 So we're going to say, hey, I would like to not only have you take this template,
 this little pattern, the string pattern, regular expression pattern,
 run it across the line, I want you to give me all the ones that match.
 And I want a list of those.
 And that's what we're going to use the find all.
 So search gives a true false, find all gives a list of all the strings that match.
 So if there's four of them, you'll get four things in the list.
 If there's nothing that matches, you'll get an empty list.
 So let's take a look at what we got going here.
 So instead of calling search, we call find all.
 We still pass in the string that we're looking through.
 And then we have our little template pattern.
 And this is a new bit of regular expression.
 Any little bracket operation, square bracket, is one character.
 That's just a character.
 But then in between here is a set of allowed characters.
 So 0-9 means a single digit, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.
 But that's really one character.
 And then we have, so that's one character.
 And then when the plus applies to that, which means if we look at this whole thing,
 this whole thing says one or more digits.
 That's the code we write in a regular expression that says one or more digits.
 And we're just going to use that in our regular expression by itself.
 So we're going to look for any string that's one or more digits.
 And pull it out and give it back to me.
 So it's going to look.
 So that's my little template, stamp, stamp, stamp, stamp.
 Oop, got it.
 Stamp, stamp, stamp, stamp, stamp, stamp, stamp, stamp, stamp, stamp.
 Oop, got it.
 Stamp, stamp, stamp, stamp, got it.
 So what we get back after we ask find all to find all of the one or more digit
 strings is 2, 9, and 42.
 So it actually parsed it.
 It split it.
 It found all these things and said, I found them all for you.
 And here they are, 2, 19, and 42.
 So it's a list of three strings because that's how many it found.
 Now, it might have found none.
 And we would have got an empty list at that point.
 But it found some.
 OK.
 So just as an example, we did this thing.
 We get 2, 19, and 42.
 But if I said this, that basically is an uppercase vowel, A, E, I, O, or U.
 So that's one letter.
 And that's one or more.
 So it's saying something like A, A would match, E, I would match, O, O would match.
 But if you look now, it's saying, OK, I'm looking for one or more.
 Minimum one or more uppercase, A, E, I, O, U is a set of characters, one or more
 uppercase letters.
 And so it's like, look, there's an uppercase.
 But it's an M. No, no, no, no, no, uppercase, no uppercase, no uppercase,
 no uppercase, found nothing, did not find anything.
 And so it gives us back an empty list.
 And so it's like, find all the things that match this.
 And the answer is, none matched, here's your list of nothing.
 And so you have to check.
 That's how you have to check even if you got something, because it's not
 going to return you false.
 It returns you a list with no items in it.
 Now, the way it works, like I said, it sort of is taking this template and
 stamping it across the line, stamping across the characters.
 Now, there's a behavior that might not be intuitive you at the very beginning.
 But the notion of what we call greedy matching.
 And that is, when it can match more than one possible string,
 overlapping string, it chooses the largest of the overlapping strings.
 And so the easiest way is to show this with an example.
 And we're saying, I want something that starts with an F with one or
 more characters and ends with a colon.
 So that's my little stamp, that's my template.
 So it starts with an F, good, that's good.
 One or more characters, dah, dah, dah, dah, dah, have a colon.
 So that could be from colon, that would match.
 But look, I've got another colon here, and this is just continuing on with one or
 more characters, and this.
 So the question is, do we get this, or do we get this part, right?
 And the answer is, with greedy matching, is we get the larger of the two, okay?
 And so what you get back is somewhat counterintuitive.
 You get the whole thing as the match, from colon using the.
 We could have got from colon, but the reason it picks this is this one's longer.
 So any time it has a choice, it picks the longer one.
 And that's what greedy is, meaning it's probably better described as larger or
 tending toward the longest string, or something like that.
 So you can, of course, suppress this behavior, like everything.
 In programming regular expressions, you simply add another character.
 And so now, it's going to say, I would like to start with letter f,
 any character, one or more times, and then this question mark,
 this is still one little thing, non-greedy, okay?
 And so that just says, do it not greedy,
 which just means that it prefers the shorter of the strings.
 And so now, it could still match this string or this string.
 But because it's been told to not be greedy, it chooses this string instead, and
 that's the string that we get.
 And so that's the not greedy, and
 you just had the question mark after the asterisk.
 So it's usually an asterisk question mark or a plus question mark.
 That's a two thing, that's zero more characters non-greedy, and
 that's one or more characters non-greedy.
 Actually, most of the time, it seems to me that the non-greedy would be
 the more reasonable default, but that's not how it is.
 Greedy is the default, and non-greedy is optional.
 Now, we can play some more with this stuff, okay?
 And so let's take a look at this little example,
 where we have a non-blank characters, backslash capital S.
 One or more of those non-blank characters, followed by an at sign, and
 then again, one or more non-blank characters.
 So this is looking for strings that have an at sign with non-blank characters on
 both sides.
 This is an example of where it sort of comes to this at, and it goes this way, and
 it does it in a greedy manner.
 If you told it to not be greedy, it would give you this, these three characters.
 But we're telling it to go greedy, so it goes all the way to here, and
 stops at this blank, and then stops at this blank.
 And so that's a nice little thing.
 Find the at signs, go to the first blank, blank, and pull that stuff out.
 And so that, with one little match, you've pulled this thing out.
 Now, of course, we've done that before with other techniques.
 So that's just another way to pull stuff out.
 Now, if we, we get this whole thing, but
 what if that's not exactly what we wanted?
 We can tell, we can, we, we can give it
 a matching string that's different than the extracting string by adding parentheses.
 And so here's another example, where we basically say, this is our string.
 We wanna match from at the beginning, followed by a space, followed by,
 ignore the parentheses for the minute, one or more non-blank characters,
 followed by an at sign, followed by one or more non-blank characters.
 So this is also going to, if there's no from,
 it's not gonna be looking for that, right?
 So it demands the from is here, so it matches that, and
 the space is demanded as well, and then it says, oh, non-blank characters, great.
 I got an at sign, great, non-blank characters, oops, stop there.
 And so this is what's going to match.
 Now, the key is that we don't actually want that back in our extraction.
 What we really want back in our extraction is this part right here.
 So what we do is we put parentheses in.
 Parentheses don't, are code, they're, they're code in the regular expression world.
 Parentheses say, start your extraction and end your extraction.
 And so when you do this with a parentheses, when you, when you do it,
 you know, without a parentheses, you get, you get the whole from, right?
 Without a parentheses, oh wait, no, okay, that, that doesn't have a from in it.
 So, but if you do that with the parentheses, the, you match the from, but
 you only get the, this bit to come out as well.
 So you can add this to make the matching part more precise, but
 without changing what you get returned, and
 you specify what you want to get returned with the parentheses.
 So next I want to show you just a couple of different ways to use these newfound skills.
 [MUSIC]
