 - Hello, and welcome to Chapter 11, Regular Expressions.
 The fun thing about this chapter is unlike all the rest
 of the chapters, you sort of had to really understand
 every single thing in chapters one through 11,
 built on one another, one through 10, built on one another,
 but you can really get along without using Chapter 11.
 It's not a really required topic, but it's a fun topic
 and an interesting topic, so you can relax a little bit
 and realize that you may or may not like regular expressions,
 and if you don't like 'em, that's okay.
 You don't have to use 'em.
 You can go for your whole life
 without using regular expressions.
 The idea of a regular expression is that
 you come up with a language.
 It's a little character-based programming language
 where you can, you know, do smart searching, basically.
 Start searching, and as you'll see in a bit,
 well, smart extraction.
 And it's really almost programmable wild card expressions.
 There's no looping, but there is looping,
 and there's all this implicit thing,
 and you say, look for patterns that look like this,
 and then you get back things that match those patterns.
 You know, we do searching for everything.
 We're looking through large blocks of text.
 Say, go find me everything that has the word Python in it
 or something like that.
 So that's just such a common thing to do,
 and regular expressions are a very structured way
 to go about searching for information.
 They're very powerful, but they're also very cryptic,
 and you may not like them, but they're a lot of fun,
 actually, once you understand them.
 Learning how to program them takes a while.
 Writing good regular expression programs requires some
 try it, play with it, check it, try it,
 check it, try it, check it, but once you get them,
 they're really quite cool.
 It's a very old programming language.
 You know, it comes almost from the 1960s.
 The concept of, it's a theory of computing,
 where they were trying to come up with theory of languages,
 and regular expressions was one form of languages
 that computers could understand,
 and so it has some fun old words.
 And one of the advantages of knowing regular expressions
 is that you're kind of a cool person.
 You can take a quick look at this XKCD
 that sort of captures the devil may care,
 awesome power that regular expressions do.
 And while we're at it, you know,
 while we're talking about awesome,
 I do want to take this moment
 and show you my awesome tattoos.
 And so, you may not know this,
 but I got a couple tattoos here.
 Here's the first tattoo.
 This is where I went to, got my PhD,
 this is my University of Michigan faculty member position.
 I got PhD in engineering,
 and I teach in a school of information in library science.
 And then I have this other tattoo,
 and this tattoo is what I call the ring of compliance.
 I work on learning management systems
 and educational technology and standards,
 and there's this standard called
 learning tools interoperability,
 which if you're using this course and doing the autograder,
 it uses learning tools interoperability
 to integrate into whatever learning management system
 you happen to be using.
 And one of those learning management systems
 is the open source learning management system
 that I helped write called Sakai.
 And these are the rest of the major vendors.
 And the idea of that tattoo was that
 I would put the tattoo of every vendor
 that would comply with learning tools interoperability.
 So you'll notice Coursera.
 I helped Coursera put learning tools interoperability in,
 and so the autograder is integrated into Coursera,
 or Blackboard, or Canvas, or Sakai, or Moodle,
 or half of those are other things.
 So it's just like a cool techno thing,
 just like regular expressions.
 So I've got a URL here for regular expression quick guide.
 You might want to print this out
 so that you can look at it
 even while you're watching this lecture,
 because it's a little programming language,
 except that it's character-based,
 not line-based and not keyword-based.
 It has certain active characters
 that the character means something
 versus the character represents the character itself.
 And so the regular expressions
 is not part of the base Python,
 but it's distributed with Python,
 so you have to put import re at the top
 to say that's really saying
 pull in the regular expression library.
 And there is a couple of functions inside that.
 re.search, which is kind of like a really smart version
 of the find method inside of strings,
 and re.findall, which is kind of like
 taking and stamping your way through a loop,
 through a string, and finding all of the things
 that match a particular pattern and then extracting those.
 And we'll talk about both of these in this lecture.
 So here's a really simple piece of code
 where I'm just going to sort of show you
 sort of before and after.
 So here's a thing where we're looking for lines
 that begin with from colon.
 And so we open a file, we loop through the whole file,
 we strip off the lines text,
 and then we say if line.find from
 is greater than or equal to zero, then we print it.
 It gives you negative one if it's not found,
 and so reads all the lines,
 and once in a while it'll print it out,
 and reads all the lines once in a while it'll print it out.
 So that's kind of like a needle in the haystack.
 To use regular expressions to do that,
 we have to import the regular expression library.
 These lines are the same, we're going to loop through,
 we're going to strip, and now we're going to say if re.search.
 The way to say this is within the library regular expressions,
 go find the search function,
 and search for the string from in the string line, okay?
 So this is the line to search,
 whereas here it was more object-oriented
 where we say line.find.
 We say re.search and we pass in line as parameter.
 These two things are equivalent,
 which means most of the time it's going to run,
 and once in a while it'll hit a line,
 and it'll print that out,
 and then it'll finish the whole thing.
 So that is taking and doing what we would do
 with the find operation with regular expressions.
 Now, searching with regular expressions
 has these special characters,
 and so here we have the same basic code,
 except now we're saying if line starts with from.
 So we're not using find anymore,
 and that way we're only going to get that thing
 in the first position,
 not like blah, blah, blah, blah from colon.
 We don't want that to match.
 We only want it to match here at the beginning of the line,
 and so that's what we use line starts with.
 So it's going to do the same thing
 and find lines that have the prefix
 and print those out and then be done.
 Now, in regular expression search,
 we don't, in a sense, change the method.
 We have a certain number of things we can do with strings
 based on what they've built in,
 but in regular expression we actually can turn
 this first parameter into code,
 and so what's happening here is the caret,
 if you go back to the little cheat sheet,
 caret means this is the beginning of line.
 It's a virtual character that matches the beginning line.
 It's like from that starts at the beginning,
 so from at the beginning does match,
 and from in the middle does not match
 by putting that little caret there.
 Same thing, line is what we're searching,
 and then from is what we caret from,
 line at the beginning is what we're looking for,
 and so again it does the exact same thing,
 and only prints lines that have from colon
 as the first character in the line.
 So the difference is is we look for a method,
 and the other one is we program the regular expression.
 So we're going to run out of methods in the string class
 long before we run out of things
 that we can do with regular expressions.
 And so a couple other special characters
 that caret matches the beginning of the line,
 so caret matches the beginning of the line.
 This capital X matches itself.
 Dot is a wild card that matches any character,
 and then some of the characters in regular expressions
 modify the immediately preceding character,
 and so that says look for a line that starts with X
 and then has many characters, that's these two things,
 zero or more characters followed by a colon.
 And so you can see that it's sort of,
 it's this sort of like expanding stamp.
 It's like oh, there's an X at the beginning of that line.
 It looks good.
 I got some characters here, and then I got a colon.
 That's good, so this is an X, some characters, and a colon.
 Check, X, some characters, and a colon.
 Check, X, and these things, you know, away we go.
 And so you can, that's what's going to match.
 And so you can see how some of these characters are special.
 Again, go back to your cheat sheet.
 Some of them are special,
 and some of them are actual characters.
 And this colon and X are just, they're not special.
 They're just the characters, okay?
 Now, sometimes you want to be a little more clear
 on your match, so let's take a look at these lines
 that match that particular thing that we just did.
 So we have these two, X-Sieve:,
 X-DSPAM-Result, like these are from mail messages.
 And then one of the mail messages has a line in it
 that says X dash plain is behind schedule.
 And this matches.
 Is that what you really wanted?
 And so what we can basically say is because this is an X,
 this is some number of characters, and that's a colon,
 it matches, it has to match.
 That's this rule applied to this line results in a yes.
 It does.
 And so how can you be a little more clear
 as to what you want to match
 and what you don't want to match?
 So we can write code.
 So now what we're going to say is
 we want to match the beginning of the line,
 and we want to capital X, and we want to dash.
 So now we're going to match those first two characters,
 X dash, at the beginning of the line.
 Caret X- says first two characters of the line
 must be X dash.
 Now we have another special character.
 Now again, refer to your cheat sheet.
 Backslash capital S means a non-white space character.
 Any character other than white space.
 And then plus means one or more times,
 one or more non-white space characters.
 That's what this whole thing says.
 One or more non-white space characters,
 and followed by a colon, which is just a character.
 So now we have X dash followed by one or more
 non-white space characters followed by a colon.
 X dash followed by one or more non-white space characters
 followed by a colon.
 And here we have X dash followed by one or more,
 whoops, there's a space there.
 And so this doesn't match.
 Even though there's a colon there,
 it means that between the dash and the colon,
 you can only have some number of non-white space characters.
 So this is a no, it does not match.
 And so you just can, if you didn't want to match this,
 you then sort of create a more precise,
 you know, we could even have a thing that said
 I want X dash with an uppercase character,
 uppercase letter, if you wanted to.
 So there's all kind of fine-tuning
 if you sort of learn the structure that you've got to do.
 And so that's kind of the matching
 where you're taking a whole line
 and taking this template and deciding
 if the template anywhere in that line matches.
 And now what we're going to do is use this
 to actually pull data out of strings
 using the regular expression library.
 (upbeat rock music)
 (upbeat rock music)
