 Hello and welcome to yet another walkthrough of Python for Everybody.
 So we're going to be walking through some of the code in Chapter 9 of the book.
 So what I've got here is a couple of terminal windows.
 I'm not going to use my fancy editor.
 You of course can use whichever editor that you like, but I'm going to just use my terminal.
 I'm using a Macintosh, but everything I'm doing would work the same on a Linux box and
 you'd have to adapt it a bit on a Windows box.
 So I'm in a command line where I can type commands.
 Like the first command I can type is like print working directory.
 And this shows that I am in the /users folder, /c/slev/desktop/py4e.
 And if I had to do a pwdo in my other window, it's important that I have both these windows
 in the same place, because I'm going to develop code in one window and I'm going to run code
 in the other window.
 So let's do exercise 09, 01, CD, exercise, and I hit the tab key and it did automatic
 completion there.
 So now I'm one folder lower and I'm going to go to CD, exercise 09, oops, 9, 01, CD,
 exercise 09, 01, and PWD, so I'm here.
 Okay.
 So the first thing I'm going to do is I am going to create a simple program and you're
 going to think that somehow I write all this code instantly because it just magically comes
 out of my brain.
 But I always start doing exactly what I'm about to show you.
 So I'm going to edit a file, EX09, 01.py.
 That's also the name of the folder.
 And I am going to put in this print EX09 and then I'm going to save that file and I'm going
 to come over to this window and I'm going to do an LS minus L and I'm going to see that
 I've got this file that has 15 characters I created on this date.
 And then I'm going to say Python EX09, 01.py.
 So that's going to look at that and run it and it prints that out.
 But let's just for fun, let's make a mistake.
 Let's put XRent and there we go.
 So what I do here is I really want to know that both of these windows are in the same
 place, okay?
 So next thing I'm going to do is I need some files to work with and it's important that
 you get the files in the same folders that you're going to put them in.
 So the first one we're going to do is to go to pyh4e.com/code3/intro.txt and then I'm
 going to save this file as a text file.
 And I'm in csev user, csev desktop py4e, but I want to go into the EX09 and there's
 my Python file and I'm just going to save this file as intro.txt and I'm also going
 to play with the clown data, so I'll save that one as well.
 And now my file browser's already put me in EX09, so there's the file, there's intro.txt
 and then there's the Python code.
 So now I've got in this file, let me go ahead and minimize that.
 So in this file, in this folder, I do an ls -l and now you see that I've got three files.
 I've got a clown.txt, an intro.txt, and a exercise 0901.py, okay?
 So I am now going to get rid of that line and prompt for a file name, fname equals input.
 I've got to slow down, [LAUGH] enter file colon space.
 And I'll just say print fname and again, I could type this really fast, but I just like.
 So I'm using the cursor up in my particular shell.
 I can run the old command again, so python ex and so that was supposed to be hello.
 And so that code is working.
 One thing you'll notice is at this input, let's go print fname len fname.
 And if I run it again and I just hit enter, the fname is kind of nothing but
 the length is zero, so I'm going to take advantage of this.
 And I'm going to, in effect, add a default here.
 If len of fname is less than one.
 Fname equals clown.txt.
 There we go.
 So if the length of the file name is less than one character,
 then I'm going to define it as clown.txt.
 I'm doing a lot of typos this morning, and then I print it out.
 So if I hit enter, then my file is clown.txt.
 But then if I put in another thing like intro.txt, then it works.
 And this, I do this as a developer to save time.
 If I'm going to be able to process different files, why not have a default file?
 And you'll see as I go through this, I'm going to use clown.txt a lot.
 And so I just throw this one line in here and
 it saves me having type intro.txt or clown.txt over and over again.
 So now I got a file name, so let's open this up.
 Fhand equals open fname.
 So fname is a string, and fhand is going to be a file handle.
 What do we usually do as soon as we make a file handle?
 We say, for line in fhand colon line equals line.rstrip to take off.
 And I'm going to just print it, get rid of this little stuff down here.
 So I'm going to prompt for a file name on open that, then I'm going to loop through it.
 And let's do clown.txt, so that red one line.
 And if I then do it again and I type intro.txt, it reads lots of lines.
 And they're all properly rstripped, and so we're in great shape.
 So the next thing we're going to do is we're going to break this
 using split into a set of words.
 The spaces are going to go away cuz that's how it works, okay?
 So what we're going to do here is we're going to say words equals line.split.
 And now I'm going to print words.
 And just for now, I'm going to comment out the print line.
 So now instead of seeing this line, we're going to see a list of the words on the line.
 So I'll just do clown.
 So now we see that this is the words in there, okay?
 And so that's pretty cool.
 We now are opening our file up.
 And so what we want to do, well, let's do intro.txt right here.
 So in intro.txt, we got lots of lines.
 And some of the times the list is empty cuz that was a blank line by itself.
 Sometimes there's a bunch of words.
 So we want to go through every line, but
 then we also want to go horizontally through every word.
 So we're going to write another for loop.
 Now this is a nested for loop, for w in wds.
 So that says iterate, now we're in one line, right?
 So for all the words in the line we're in, let's go through that.
 And you can probably guess what I'm going to do.
 I'm going to print w, okay?
 And I'll leave that print of the words in the line in there.
 And then we'll see me adding a print and then taking out the previous print.
 And it has to do with keeping my confidence high that I'm doing the right thing.
 You might think that this takes a long time, but if you write a whole bunch of stuff,
 so this is the last line of intro.txt that says took you a bit of time to absorb it.
 And then the inner loop, that's one line, is took you a bit of time to absorb it.
 Now, if we were going to work a little harder,
 we might be able to figure out the punctuation.
 But for this part, we're not going to fight over the punctuation, okay?
 So now we have the words.
 Let me comment this one out, and then I delete that one,
 cuz I feel really good about the other part of this loop.
 Oops, like spaces, so we'll do it again.
 And so now what we're going to see is we're not going to see this.
 We're just going to see a linear long list of the words in the file.
 And it doesn't care now what line it's on.
 So I'll just do the clown stuff.
 And you see that the clown just prints the words in the file,
 even though it had to do two loops to do that.
 One loop is the loop through the lines, and
 the other loop is the loop through the words in the line.
 But when it's all said and done, we are now using a nested pair of loops to loop
 through all the words in the file, split into spaces.
 So that's pretty cool.
 Okay, so now we are going to make a dictionary and start counting things.
 Okay?
 And of course, we're going to use the same pattern we've been using.
 That's from the lecture.
 We're going to call count, let's call this many dict.
 So this is a constructor, and we're making, say,
 give me an empty dictionary and put it in the variable many, okay?
 And so what I'll do first is something silly.
 And I'm going to say many sub w = 42.
 And that's, so now we're going to see all the words in the file, and
 I'm just going to put that into the dictionary with a key of w,
 which is the word itself, and then 42 is the number.
 And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to print that dictionary.
 Just print many out, okay?
 Cuz this is going to be a counting pattern, but
 we certainly aren't counting anything by setting them all to 42.
 Nothing wrong with setting them all to 42.
 And so now what we have is the dictionary, the maps to 42,
 clown maps to 42, ran maps to 42, they all map to 42.
 Why? Because we mapped them all to 42.
 And so now what we've got to do is we've got to basically add 1 to these things.
 So the easiest thing would be to say many sub w + 1.
 So however many we had in that word, let's just add 1 to it.
 So let's try that one.
 Whoops, what happened?
 What happened?
 Well, it looks like you'll notice because we still have this print statement,
 it's right here, okay?
 So it was the first one, it blew up on the first one.
 So let's print each time through the loop what's in the many, okay?
 So I'm going to run it again.
 And so the word we're looking at is the, and the many dictionary is empty.
 Of course it is, it's a first line.
 So what we're doing is we're getting a key error, right?
 A key error, the, right there.
 It's like you're not allowed to do that.
 So what we have to do is we have to check if the word we're looking at,
 the, is in there so that we get the old value.
 We want this many sub w to be the old value, but it's not.
 So this is what we're going to say.
 We're going to say old value equals zero if w is currently already in the many.
 And old value equals many sub w.
 So if it's the first time we're seeing it, it's not going to be in many.
 But if it's already in there,
 then we know that many has the old count, like some have 42, right?
 And then instead of going and saying, many sub w, we can just grab this old value.
 The old value is going to either be zero or
 the previous count that we had for whatever word we're doing, okay?
 And so now what we'll see as we run this, click my screen.
 Ah, yeah, that's because I forgot to save my file.
 Yeah, you will make that mistake many times as well.
 I've been doing this for many years, many, many years.
 And I still make that mistake.
 Luckily, I see it right away.
 Okay, so this is getting a little tricky.
 Let's go up to the top, right?
 So we read the word the.
 Let's do this.
 Let's add a little bit of, just make it.
 So we know which are the words we're processing, okay?
 So I'll just, we'll redo that one.
 So we see the word the, then we print the old copy of the dictionary.
 And then whatever, we see clown, and
 the dictionary contains the one, but it doesn't have clown.
 Now let's do another one.
 I'm going to say, I'm going to do this again, before.
 And then, I'm going to copy this line down here.
 And I'm going to say after, oops, after.
 That's going to be super awesome.
 Okay, clown.text.
 So now we can see a lot of stuff in every single line.
 So we read the word the, then before, the dictionary has nothing in it.
 But after, the dictionary has one in it.
 And the old value, in this case, was zero.
 Okay, let's do this.
 Hang on, let's do this.
 Let's print old value, comma, old value.
 I know I'm going crazy on this.
 And I know you'll, you probably already know how to do this.
 But I don't care, it's only computer time.
 So, let's go in the beginning.
 So we read the word the, there's nothing in the dictionary.
 And because the is not in the dictionary, the old value is zero.
 And then afterwards, we basically say let's set the to be the old value plus one.
 So old value is zero, and that is how we get this one.
 Then we see the clown.
 The is one, but clown's not there, so old value is zero.
 Then after, the is one and clown is one.
 And you kind of see what's going on here.
 Let's get to one that's a little more interesting.
 Eventually, we run into the second the in the file.
 And before, the maps to one, clown maps to one, etc.
 But because the is in there, the old value is taken out of the dictionary.
 That means that we add one to that and store it back in.
 And so then the goes from one to two, right?
 We can keep down going down here.
 Later in the file, we read another the.
 At this point, the, we've seen it four times.
 So the old value is four, and then the new value is five.
 And you just go and go and go and go.
 And eventually, we've done all the counting.
 So this is this trick to get over the notion of
 you can't look an item up in a dictionary if it's not there.
 Now, this little old value trick, we've done it in the lecture and if then else.
 But I wanted to do this old value cuz it's a little more explicit.
 This old value is basically could be rewritten as,
 let's just comment this out.
 I want to this time I'm going to say old value equals many.get w,0.
 I didn't call it old value, and we've talked about get.
 So let me just review it.
 Get basically says if this key is in there,
 get back the value that's under that key, otherwise return a default value of zero.
 So when the key's not there, we get back a zero.
 Which basically is exactly what we did in these two little lines.
 So now, we'll run it again.
 And if I did it right, it'll have exactly the same result.
 Yeah, same result.
 The difference is, I have come up with a much prettier way of calculating what
 the previous value is using the built-in dictionary method called get.
 Now, let me delete some more stuff here.
 I think I'll just, I think I've talked enough about this.
 So now, we can just replace, I'll copy this.
 You don't even have to make a variable called old value.
 We can say many sub w equals many.get w,0 with a default of zero plus one.
 So we just collapsed all those lines.
 And when you can do this, your code is easier to read.
 More understandable, probably a little faster.
 But most importantly, less error prone.
 And this get thing is an idiom that everybody knows in Python.
 So it's not going to confuse anybody.
 So now, let's run it again and see that we get roughly the same results.
 There we go, right?
 We see that that was the last word, and then this is the result of it running.
 So now, I'm feeling mighty good about this.
 So I'm just going to delete this line and this line, and
 now you see how succinct this really is.
 And why I'm doing this is sort of to build the concepts.
 Cuz in lecture, I just show you the answer, right?
 And I try to explain it all, and frankly, I can get rid of that line, right?
 And I might even get rid of that blank line, cuz these two line are stiff and
 line split, I know what those do, cuz I'm really, really confident.
 But I'm not confident enough to not run it at least one more time,
 to make sure I didn't screw it up in my edits.
 And there we are, so it's good.
 So now, what we have to do is we have to find the
 word with the largest count.
 So now we're going to loop through the dictionary.
 So we're going to just kind of, we printed it out, you see it over there.
 We're going to say four, and we need to say kind of key comma value.
 And I will use French for key, comma v-e-l-e-u value,
 clair value in many.items.
 So I chose variable names for French speaking.
 That really means key value.
 And again, that's a tuple, which we'll talk more about later.
 So that will iterate through every time, print, clair, comma, value.
 E-u-r, I'll make many typos when I'm in French.
 But there we go.
 So that is going to iterate through the key value pairs one at a time.
 But now we're going to be able to get our hands on each one.
 So if we run it again, you see that this is the iteration
 going through this dictionary.
 But we want to do a max loop.
 So we'll just call largest.
 I could do this in French too, but my French is limited.
 Largest equals none.
 If largest is none,
 or largest greater than value,
 value, then we grab that.
 Valuer, my French is terrible.
 Okay, so we get this largest and at the end, after all that is done,
 I should be able to print largest.
 Let's put like yay, comma largest.
 So this should loop through these and
 find the largest of the valuer, which is going to be seven.
 So you see at the end here, it says yay, but that's not what we want.
 Wait, no, something is wrong with this code.
 Cuz I got the one, I got the, what?
 No, I flipped this.
 I need to say, that's my French weakness in French.
 Yeah, if the value that we've got is greater than the largest.
 This is why it's important to choose variable names.
 So let's run it again.
 Variable names make sense to you cuz my French is so bad.
 And now we see seven.
 But the key thing is we also want to know which word it was.
 So all the time we're going through these values in the loop.
 CLE, clear, is the word.
 So now all we need to do is create another variable called bigWord.
 Equals, we'll start with none.
 And then anytime we find a larger one, we just say bigWord equals clear.
 So we grab the key and stick it in bigWord.
 And then I can say bigWord comma largest.
 So let's run it.
 And so the largest word is the, and the count that we had was seven.
 So I think I can get rid of some print statements here.
 And I can get rid of the yay.
 And we're going to make this thing very, very, not very loud at all.
 We're not very, I got to get rid of many up here.
 Right, so now let's run it on cloud.txt.
 The maximum largest word is the, and there's seven of them.
 And now, in a brief instant, I can just run it again on much bigger file.
 Ro.txt, and I use the word the 226 times.
 I seem to use that a lot.
 Of course, people who write English tend to use that a lot.
 So here we go.
 I mean, I'm going to show you the whole thing.
 It's a pretty straightforward.
 We use the get idiom.
 That really saves you an if or even an if then else.
 And then we simply did a simple maximum loop.
 So I hope that this was helpful to you.
 And watched as we built a dictionary tool.
 I've got a piece of software that use dictionaries.
 So by seeing how I construct it, you can see it a different way.
 Cheers.
 [MUSIC]
