 >> Hello, and welcome to our lecture on Python dictionaries.
 So Python dictionaries are an example of a collection.
 And a collection is just a way for us to put more than one value in a variable and sort
 of take a group of values that are usually similar in one way or the other, but move
 them around together.
 It's kind of like putting things in a piece of luggage and carrying them all around together.
 Each of the things is distinct, but we can carry them around together.
 And so it's just nice and convenient, but we do have to organize them.
 So a good example of a disorganized collection is the desktop that I'm sitting at in front
 of right now as I'm making this lecture.
 And you can see that's just very disorganized.
 And so part of the goal of a collection is organizing it.
 Now what's not a collection?
 A symbol variable is not a collection.
 So we put x equals 2, 2 is an x.
 One statement later we say x equals 4, and 4 is an x, but 2 is long gone.
 So we can't put two things in x at the same time.
 But if x is a collection, we can put two things in at the same time.
 Now we've already covered lists.
 A list is a linear collection of values, and you can look it up by position, somewhere
 between 0 and the length of that list minus 1.
 But a dictionary is a collection of key-value pairs.
 You can look them up by tag or key.
 Now it turns out that dictionaries also have an order.
 So a filing cabinet with a bunch of tabs is a good example.
 If you have a bunch of books in a bookshelf, and you can read the names of the books.
 The content is the book itself, but you've got the titles on the back of books.
 Another thing that you might imagine is I bet we all have like a box or a drawer that
 has a bunch of computer cables in it, and I did too.
 And I used to just throw extra computer cables in, but I had so many extra computer cables
 so I came up with a new trick.
 The new trick is to put all the cables of a certain type into the same bag.
 And then I would put a label on, and that's the key essence of key-value pairs.
 The key in this is HDMI.
 The value is what's inside of it.
 So I should be able to go into my junk drawer and say, "Hey, give me my HDMI cables."
 And I would get them back.
 Now Python's collection is very efficient at getting it back.
 So I say like, "Hey, get my firewire cables," and this would just come out because this
 is my firewire bag, my bag of firewire cables.
 That's how long I've been doing video is I have a bag of firewire cables that I don't
 use very often.
 Now the collection, whether it's a bookshelf or a drawer full of bags of cables that are
 marked has a key value, but it also then has an order.
 But the key thing is that in Python, unlike in the real world, the best way to look things
 up is by the tag or the key, not going all the way through them.
 So dictionaries are Python's most powerful data collection, and they allow us to do fast
 database-like operations in Python.
 There are similar concepts in many different programming languages that you may or may
 not have heard of, like associative arrays, like Perl or PHP, properties, property maps
 or hash maps or tree maps and Java or property bags, and C++ also has a map concept.
 Now dictionaries have changed over time in Python.
 Prior to 2018, dictionaries did not keep entries in their order of insertion.
 You'd put them in and they kind of get all jumbled up and randomized, and that's because
 the underlying storage mechanism, what's called a hash table, purely hash table, which does
 not keep things in order.
 And since 2018, Python 3.7, the dictionaries keep entries in the order that they were inserted.
 Now they're not sorted, not sorted by key, not sorted by value, and one of the things
 we're going to do is do a lot of sorting by key and value.
 They're stored in insertion order.
 And so it's almost like dictionaries after Python 3.7 are kind of like lists but with
 a very different way of storing and looking things up.
 So you store them, they kind of stay in order, but in lists you use numbers to get them out
 and in Python you use whatever the keys are that you've done.
 Now Python lists and dictionaries are elegant, abstract, beautiful, easy to use objects,
 and that's part of the reason people like using Python is because things like lists
 and dictionaries just work so well.
 For now, let's just pretend they're magical.
 We're going to understand them and be thankful that Guido and the others who built Python
 for us just made them well-designed and easy for us to use.
 But underneath the covers, the code to support them is actually pretty complex.
 The way that computer scientists built the implementation for dictionaries in lists are
 things like dynamic memory, arrays, linked lists, hash maps, and trees.
 And those are all computer science concepts that for now I might mention the word hash
 in passing, but in general that implementation detail is for a later course, and it's most
 commonly a course that we do in C. So we can go from easy, super easy to use in Python,
 to like, "Whoa, this is hard to build."
 That's actually part of the skill.
 But for now, just ignore this.
 So let's take a quick review of how lists work.
 So we append values to the end of the list, it's the only thing we can do, and we look
 at them by position.
 We can change things, but if we want to insert something then they all got to be shuffled
 down a little bit.
 So we're going to call cards equals list, open print, closed print, which is the list constructor.
 We're going to append in order, 12, 3, and 75.
 And then we're going to print them out, and we get them out with square brackets, 12, 3,
 and 75.
 We can look them up by position.
 Cards sub 1, so they start at 0, so that's actually the second one, and that value there
 is 3.
 So in the second position in the list, which is the sub 1 position in the list, the value
 is 3.
 We can use this sort of index syntax of square brackets, cards sub 1 plus 2 on the right
 hand side of an assignment statement.
 So that'll retrieve the value 3, add 2 to it, and then store it back in the cards sub
 1.
 And so we can, if we're using the index expression, we can treat that kind of like a variable.
 And if we print cards afterwards, we see that the second value has moved from 3 to 5.
 Doing a similar kind of thing in dictionaries, we make a thing called cabinet, and we call
 the dictionary constructor, and we say cabinet sub summer equals 12.
 So just like in my drawer of cables, I had to pick a label before I threw it in.
 And so in this case, summer is the label and 12 is the value.
 Now, they can be much larger than that.
 I'm using keys as strings and integers as values because it's a very common use case,
 but they can be much more complex than that.
 Cabinet sub fall equals 3 and cabinet sub spring equals 75.
 They're being inserted.
 So when you print them, you see summer 12, fall 3, spring 75.
 But the thing that's key about this is you might put a million things in there, but printing
 cabinets of fall does not need to read all million things.
 A list, you might have to read all million things to find something.
 But dictionaries and how they're built using hash maps, how they're built, cabinet sub
 fall is in a sense guaranteed to you to be instant, virtually instantaneous.
 So we, even though there's only three in this one, if there's a million, it would be just
 about as fast.
 And so we get that three.
 We can also use this index syntax with a string as index, pull off the old version, which
 is 3, add 2 to it, becomes 5, goes back in, the cabinets of fall, and you print it.
 And you can see that the entire cabinet is unchanged except the key fall is now 5.
 So you can kind of see this, right?
 The only real difference is how we index these things.
 If we look at them, they kind of accumulate values in order, but in dictionaries we're
 accumulating keys and values, and then the way we look things up is by key in dictionaries
 and by position in values.
 And we can both look things up and we can change them in both dictionaries and lists.
 Like anything, you've got to have a way to put a constant because you want to say a set
 of key value pairs, so it's really simple.
 The constant looks exactly like the printout.
 So if you print a dictionary, it has a curly brace and then a key colon value comma key
 colon value comma key colon value.
 And so you can do that, and that's a literal, that's a dictionary constant, sign that into
 JJJ, and then you print that out and you get back basically the same thing.
 And if you just do curly brace curly brace, you get an empty dictionary.
 So up next, we're going to use dictionaries to go through a seemingly unlimited length
 list of names or eventually words, and we're going to use dictionaries to accumulate a
 histogram of the frequency of names in a list of names, and then look and find the most
 common name.
