 (soft piano music)
 - Hello and welcome to Python for Everybody.
 I'm Charles Severance, I'm the author of the textbook
 and we're going to do a little bit of code.
 If you want to get your hands on the code,
 go to the materials website, materials.php,
 actually materials.php and download the sample code.
 The code that we're going to work on today
 is the XML code and we need to be able to talk XML
 to work with web services.
 And so here's one of the examples from the book,
 it's xml1.py.
 And so later we'll be pulling XML and JSON from the web,
 but for now we're just going to put it
 in a triple-quoted string, so data.
 And we're going to use a built-in XML parser
 in Python called Element Tree.
 And when we say import xml-e-tree-element-tree,
 as-e-t, this as-e-t gives us basically
 a shortcut handle for it.
 And so the idea, this is a string,
 it has less sends and greater thans,
 it looks like structured information and it is,
 but really at this point it's only a string.
 Now we have to call this e-t from string
 to read this and give us back a tree object.
 And what it does is this might blow up,
 this code might blow up right here
 if there was a mistake in it, okay?
 And matter of fact, I can probably put a mistake in,
 let's see if I can delete this and save it
 and run this code, and we'll see that it will blow up.
 Right?
 And so it blew up here in line eight,
 Element Tree blew up,
 I mean it blew up in line 12 of the code,
 which is right here.
 This failed because the line eight
 of the XML string was wrong.
 So let's put that back in.
 So now it's properly formed XML.
 So this tree we get back, I name it tree
 just because I always name it tree,
 but you could name it x.
 So the key is tree.find goes and looks for a tag name find
 and tree is no longer got less thans and greater thans in it,
 it is went and turned these into objects
 within objects within objects.
 So tree find name says I would like to find the tag name
 and that's what this bit is right here
 and then .txt.text is going within that
 and grabbing that text, okay?
 And if we say tree find.email,
 then that's going to give us this
 and then that's that object and then .get asks
 for the contents of the hide attribute,
 which is the string yes, okay?
 And so if we run this, now that it's fixed,
 Python 3.xml1.py, it will pull in and get the name
 and the attribute, so it pulled the chuck out
 and so you get this object
 and then you kind of dive into that object
 and so that's xml1.py.
 If you've got a tag, you can either get the text
 out of the tag or you can get an attribute out of the tag.
 So now let's take a look at xml2.py.
 Again, we import element tree and we have a tag
 and xml's always got to have a single outer tag,
 but this time we're going to have, in effect, a list.
 Now let's line this up a little better.
 There we go, that looks a little prettier.
 And so users, the fact that it's users doesn't mean anything
 but we often come up with semantically meaningful names
 for these things.
 Users is going to have, as a children, a list of user tags.
 Okay, so the children under user, user under user
 and then this has each of these as a tag.
 So we want to parse this
 and this is a common thing we want to do.
 And so again, the first thing we do
 is we read the string to just take this.
 It's a triple-quoted string going from here to here
 and then we're going to, instead of doing find,
 which gives us one tag, we're going to do find all
 the users tag, the user tag that is a child of users.
 And we get back a Python list of the tags,
 not of the text, but of the tags.
 So there's a one tag and there is another tag.
 And so we can do len of that so we can see that we got two.
 And then we can write a for loop
 and this item is going to iterate through the tags
 that are the user tags that are children of users.
 So the first time item is going to be this tag,
 a tag, remember, and then the second time
 is going to be this tag.
 And so we can do things like find and get
 just like we did with an XML1.
 So running this is not too exciting.
 Python 3, XML2.py.
 You see that there are two users
 that comes from this print right here.
 There are two users in there.
 And the first one, if we go into name
 and we go find the text within the name tag within user,
 then we get Chuck and then we get the ID which is 001.
 So we find the ID within that item
 and then we get the text.
 And then we look and we grab the x attribute off of that.
 And so we see Chuck,
 Chuck 001 and two.
 And then in the next tag, the for loop continues
 and we print that out, okay?
 And so that's just a basic run through of the XML
 from the chapter in the Python book, okay?
 Thanks.
 (soft music)
 you
