 [MUSIC]
 Hello, and welcome to yet another code walkthrough for Python for everybody.
 In this walkthrough, we're going to play with geocoding,
 which is really taking a text version of an address and
 turning it into a well-known, to a location.
 And we see this all the time on map applications.
 This map application that I'm using is called Open Street Map.
 It's an open source, openly maintained.
 It's a wonderful organization that gives us an alternative
 to the commercial map companies, like Google Map, who play games with all of us.
 So I'm a big fan of open source, big fan of open data resources.
 And so I'm going to search for a place.
 One of my favorite restaurants in the whole world.
 And so I'm using a text address.
 I'm like, where is this thing?
 And so it found it to me, and it found all this data.
 We see things like the GPS coordinates or
 the coordinates of latitude, longitude coordinates here.
 And there is one of my favorite restaurants in the world.
 And so the act of going from a text address
 to a location is called geocoding.
 It's a super common kind of thing.
 So we've got a bit of sample code here.
 And I am going to edit this code.
 You can get it from www.pyfree.com/code3opengeo.py.
 And save it to some location so you can edit and play with this bit of code.
 So I've got it right here.
 I'm actually editing the master copy.
 It's in GitHub, so I will be able to fix it.
 So don't worry about that.
 So let's do a bit of walkthrough.
 The API that we're going to be doing is a thing called geoAPI, and it's a company.
 And they take that OpenStreetMap data and
 they make it available to us in this geocoding API, for example.
 This is the thing that we're going to be doing.
 And so you can see that the idea of geocoding is you take a text,
 like I've said, a text address.
 There's all kinds of stuff.
 You can play with it, you can play, they give these free playgrounds.
 And so if you look at this, it's not exactly free.
 There is a free level of it, right?
 And so you still have to go get an API key.
 And if you start using it more and more, you got to pay money.
 And it gets pretty high.
 So this is 250,000, whatever, 600 bucks a month.
 So that's where the real API is.
 But if you take a look at the code, we're not going to hit that API.
 Because otherwise, you'd have to sign up for account.
 Although it'd be good exercise, you could definitely use their official API endpoint,
 if you signed up for an account.
 But I have given you what I call a heavily rate limited proxy of that.
 And it means that I've got a copy of it.
 I've got a database where I cache the most commonly used things.
 And I use Cloudflare, and we talked about that in the lecture.
 And it's also super heavily rate limited,
 which means it slows you down to a crawl if you overuse it.
 The rate limit is designed to allow you
 to get what you need done for this class, but not more, okay?
 So the prefix for this is htppi-free-data-dr-chuck.net, open geo question mark.
 And then afterwards, you put a Q equals query parameter.
 And so I've got this.
 And you see the Q equals, this is just URLs and HTTP.
 The plus in that is the space, this is called URL encoding.
 And the percent 2c is URL encoded comma, because you can't just put a comma there.
 You actually have to take the comma and encode it.
 But if we click on this click, you will get some JSON, right?
 And just like we talked about in the lecture.
 And so in there is all kinds of stuff, right?
 It's a feature collection, which means it's an array named features.
 And then you've got the country, you've got the latitude and
 longitude, which we're going to go after.
 And then we're going to look at this formatted address, okay?
 So you can test this in the browser without a key.
 And so we're going to retrieve this.
 Now, there's this little bit of stuff that we've got to do.
 Just don't worry too much about this.
 And that is, this URL open wants to check sometimes the certificates of the HTTPS.
 And we want to tell it that we're going to take data even though we,
 the certificate may not be well known by Python.
 And that's because Python, last I checked,
 doesn't ship with a ton of well known certificates.
 It's a long story.
 So just here's some code for you.
 This is basically saying we're not going to verify the certificate.
 Now, if we look at the certificate of this, you can actually see that this is
 a secure content verified and it's a CloudFlare certificate.
 And here's some more information about it, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
 And so what we're saying is we're telling Python not to look too closely at this
 stuff because we're just reading it.
 I mean, you probably would want to solve this if you were doing production, but
 for us, this is just a quick way we do it.
 Okay, so I make a big while loop and I ask for a location.
 If I just press Enter, it's going to break.
 And I strip it.
 And then I create a dictionary in order to do this Q equals thing, right?
 This little Q equals thing.
 Now, I could sort of change the space to a plus.
 I could change the comma to a percent to C.
 Or I could call a library called urllab_parse_url_encode_parms,
 which takes a key value pair in a dictionary.
 So Q equals address.
 And that does all the fancy stuff.
 So I print it, and then I use urllab_request_open with that URL.
 Context equals CTX.
 Ignore any certificate problems.
 And then read the data from the URL.
 Now, if we look at the raw data, let me retrieve this again.
 If you look at the raw data, this is actually what it looks like, okay?
 It's very compact and dense, doesn't have a lot of spaces.
 Pretty printing, as we well know, says, let's throw some spaces in so
 at least we can figure out what's going on.
 And then there's this JSON viewer, which is not really what's coming back, but
 you can show and hide things in this JSON viewer.
 That's okay, I guess, but I like to see the raw data.
 I do like it pretty printed.
 So in this particular browser, which I'm using as Firefox,
 when it sees JSON, it gives you some options as to what is supposed to work.
 Now, this decode, we've talked about this before.
 The data on the web that we just got, this data, is in UTF-8.
 And that's because there could be all kinds of characters in here
 that are not simple ASCII characters, so the web pretty much uses UTF-8.
 So when we get a read, that is UTF-8, right?
 We've read data from the Internet, and it's a UTF-8 data.
 Decode says, okay, look at it, make sure it's UTF-8, and
 then give it back to me in the form of a Python string data, which is Unicode.
 And so Unicode is not the same as UTF-8.
 Unicode is how we manipulate things inside Python.
 So by making everything Python, everything Unicode in Python,
 it all works inside Python.
 You can encode it and decode it when you move it out and back in.
 So then we say how many characters we got, and then we parse it.
 So JSON load s is a parse, it might fail.
 And then we look for sort of a sanity check to make sure if features,
 the features thing is in there.
 So that's looking for this thing, like just checking if it exists.
 And if you look at features, features is an array.
 And so for sanity, we also say, hey, we only got one back.
 Now in this Ann Arbor example, it's going to work.
 But if you put something in, this sanity checking may or may not sort of work.
 So what I'm going to do is, well, let's just run it.
 I'll just run it without uncommenting anything.
 So let's come back here, and I'm going to say python opengeo.py.
 And I'm going to type Ann Arbor, Michigan.
 So it's retrieving it.
 I mistyped it.
 So you see the rate limiting in action.
 So it figured out that I typoed, and it went and found Ann Arbor, Michigan.
 It found the real place, right?
 And that's part of what you do.
 This geocoding is kind of a search engine.
 I made a mistake.
 Now you'll notice it's a lot quicker if I type it right, cuz it already has it.
 And so it rate limits things, see how fast that was?
 That's the proxies working.
 So in that first one when I typed it wrong, the proxy was actively slowing you down.
 And I'm like, my code's broken.
 But it was actively slowing me down, because it was mad at me, cuz I was asking for
 too many things.
 But then it doesn't rate limit you on things that it already has,
 which are cheap for it, cuz it's all very well proxy.
 But we retrieved the data, we got 1319 characters.
 We figured I'll parse the latitude and the longitude.
 See, we print that out, and then we got the location, right?
 And so now let's, I can't think of a better way to describe it.
 We're just going to delete a bunch of working code.
 I'm going to delete this, I'm going to delete this.
 And I'm going to say lat equals 42,
 lon equals 42, and location equals jerk pit.
 So now what I did is I hit, all that code that looked really cool is gone now.
 So if I run it again, I can say Ann Arbor, Michigan, oops.
 See, you got to download enter.
 It was like, I don't know what that is.
 So it was unhappy, but you'll notice this download error code checked cuz I was
 typing in cursors and keys and weird things and it was not happy.
 So let's do it again.
 I wonder what would trigger that in this.
 So now you see we're running, but we are not looking at the latitude and
 the longitude.
 So let me show you how I build this code.
 So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm just going to print this stuff.
 And so we're going to see it.
 And so now this is that same data that we saw in the browser, right?
 And so what I want out of this data, and it takes a while to figure it out,
 is I want this lat and this lon value, okay?
 And I can kind of guess what this is, but I'll show you how I work through it.
 So I look at this and I say, okay, the outer thing that I want is features.
 So this is an outer dictionary, basically, features.
 And so I'm going to, that's in this variable js, that's a dictionary variable.
 So if I say print js sub features.
 So what I'm doing is I'm going to comment this part out and
 we're going to indent that, I got to put a close curly brace there.
 Comment indent equals four.
 So what I'm going to do is I'm going to work out in.
 So originally I was dumping js, now I'm going to dump js of features.
 And so I'm going to save that, and I'm going to, I got to keep running it.
 Yeah, cuz I didn't type it correct.
 Doobie doobie doo, I got an extra parenthesis.
 And I put a semicolon in cuz I've written too much java in javascript in my life and
 I can't help it.
 I got to add the json dump pass, here we go.
 I should've just copied that previous line.
 So now I got to dig in one level and then I just got to pre-print it.
 So that's json dump s with an indent of four.
 Okay, so now what you see.
 It seems subtle, but I went in and now the only thing I'm seeing is the array.
 Okay, so in this array, Okay.
 There's the zero with object or the zero with dictionary in this array.
 So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to make a tiny change here cuz the thing that
 came back from js of features is an array.
 And I'm going to grab the first item in that array.
 So what you're going to notice next time is we're going to, this is going to be the outer
 bit cuz we went into this array sub zero.
 Okay, so you see the outer thing is now a dictionary and it is of type feature.
 I mean, one of the keys is type and one of the keys is properties.
 Now we want the stuff inside properties.
 So what we're printing here.
 That we want to go into the key within that dictionary.
 So we have a dictionary, but we have an array sub zero,
 which returns a dictionary and now we're going to get the sub properties.
 And this seemed kind of slow, but it is going to finish.
 Okay, so now what we have is we have a dictionary.
 That long string now is a dictionary, let me move this over.
 That long string is a dictionary and within that dictionary there is a lawn.
 And a lat.
 So now just for testing, I'm going to say, look up in that dictionary, a lawn.
 So I'm going to run it again now.
 So now we see that the actual thing we retrieved using this
 whole thing was the number that is the longitude.
 And so now what I'm going to do, I've gotten this far, and
 now what I'm going to do is instead of the longitude being 42,
 that's what the lawn is going to look up, right?
 And we can pretty much say that the lat is going to be the lat.
 So we're going to now, I think, be able to look up lawn and lat.
 Oops.
 So now the lat and long are correct.
 Now I kind of forgot.
 So I'm going to take this off the print statement, the debug print, and run it again.
 Okay, so we found the lat and the lawn.
 Now I went up now, so I'm not printing long and lat.
 Okay, that's easy.
 It's just formatted.
 The key inside the properties is formatted.
 So now what I can do is I can find the location by grabbing this.
 And just look up formatted.
 So I'll just comment this little bit out temporarily.
 And oops, I just hit Ctrl+C.
 And arbor michigan.
 So now I'm getting the formatted address, I'm getting the latitude, and
 I'm getting the longitude.
 And so when we started, I had code that pretty much looked like this.
 It was a little bit different order.
 And you saw me sort of successively dig hierarchically into this.
 Now if you know, it's like, okay, here we go.
 It's an outer dictionary, sub features.
 It's an array, sub zero, features sub zero, and then sub properties, sub lat.
 Now you might just figure that out and immediately derive this long thing.
 I'll just say that every time I try to do that, I mess it up.
 One tiny little mistake.
 And let's just say you missed on this, I'll just make a mistake here.
 So you just said, I got that first entry in features, and
 I'm just going to go into lat.
 So that means that you're going to go straight into lat, and
 you're going to see what happens then.
 Boom.
 So what it's saying is there is no key lat, and
 that's because you're in js feature sub zero, sub lat.
 And again, it's easy because I made the mistake, I knew it.
 So the zero, this is the sub zero, and I thought that lat was in this object, but
 it's not.
 You have to go into one more dictionary deep in the properties dictionary,
 then you can go to lat.
 And that's why this one works, because I kind of dive into the properties.
 Now I think I can get that back, save me some time.
 And now it should work again.
 Okay, so we're working.
 So I hope you found this interesting, geocoding is just fun.
 Later in the course, we will make a map and do kind of a batch geocoding.
 Use a database, etc, and then make a map, and that's kind of cool.
 And you can place yourself on the map, or a place you know on the map.
 So I hope you enjoyed this, cheers.
 [MUSIC]
