 - Hello and welcome to Chapter 13, Web Services.
 So what we've been doing so far is we've been using
 the request-response cycle, we've learned about sockets,
 we've learned about URL lib, and we've actually learned
 how to pull HTML and even flat text off the internet.
 But what we're going to talk about now is using that same
 request-response cycle to retrieve information
 that is specifically designed for programmatic consumption
 so that we had to have this beautiful soup
 which sort of did a hack job or solve the hard problem
 of parsing HTML, but why not produce data in a format
 that makes good sense to a program because programs
 want to talk to each other.
 If you recall, the whole idea of a socket is to have
 one application process sending data
 to another application process.
 And so if we think about this for a moment and we realize
 that we have all these programs, they could be written
 in different programming languages and they're all connected.
 And so they might want to send data back and forth
 through the network, PHP programs, JavaScript programs,
 Java programs, and so we have to decide on a protocol
 that is independent of any programming language,
 and then we call that the wire protocol because if you were
 to sort of take some connection and watch the exact
 characters that go back and forth, that's what you would see
 if you were monitoring the wire.
 So that's why we call that the wire protocol.
 And so the idea is, is that we have to agree on a format
 that is going to represent the data and we can't make it
 a Python-specific format or a Java format.
 And when we take the data from the internal representation,
 maybe a Python dictionary, to send it to the wire,
 we call that act serialization and that is going from
 sort of the internal representation to the serial
 representation or the wire representation.
 And then here is an example of a person with a name
 and phone number with using less than and greater than,
 this is an XML example, and then in the far end
 in a different programming language, it receives this
 and then deserializes it and then turns it into some
 useful structure inside that programming language.
 And so this is an example of a wire protocol
 that's using XML and that's one of the formats
 we're going to talk about.
 Another format that we're going to talk about is a format
 called JSON, JavaScript Object Notation, and it is simpler
 and easier, but it's not as precise and descriptive
 as XML is.
 And so while you'll find that most of the things
 you run into, especially if you're talking to APIs
 of one form or another, you'll find that JSON
 is very common, XML still holds sway
 in places like documents.
 So if you look at docx at the end of a Microsoft Word
 document, docx means that it's an XML version
 of the representation of a word processing document.
 So the first thing we'll talk about is XML.
