 Hello and welcome to Chapter 3, Conditional Execution. In Conditional Execution, we meet
 the if statement. The if statement is where Python can go one way or another way and it's
 the beginning of sort of our way of making Python make decisions for us. Sequential code,
 we just, you know, do some things. Sometimes that's useful. But now we can have our code
 check something and then make a decision based on that thing. So the conditional steps in
 Python are pretty straightforward. The key word that we're going to use is the if statement.
 And so if is a reserved word. And the if statement has as part of it a question that it asks.
 And this is asking if x is less than 10. And the colon is the end of the if statement.
 And then we begin an indented block of text. And the way this works in this particular
 thing is this line is the conditional line. If the question is true, the line executes.
 And if the question is false, the line is skipped. And you can think of it the way this
 is, right? x is 5, ask a question. Is it 10 or not? These questions do not harm the value
 of x. If it is, then we run this code and then we sort of rejoin here and then we test
 this next if. And if that's true, we do this code and then we do there. But in this case
 it's going to be false because x is not less than 20 and so it just continues down here.
 So if we look at how this works, it runs, it runs this line. Then it sees this question
 and it skips that line. So this line does not run. And so smaller prints out and funny
 prints out. OK? So that's the basic idea of an if statement. And the indentation, when
 we are done with an if statement, we de-indent back and there's this little block. This is
 one sort of if statement and this is another if statement. And these are the two conditional
 lines that either run or they don't run, depending on the question, the answer to that question.
 So we have a number of different comparison operators that we can use to ask these true-false
 questions that say, is this true? So again, we're kind of limited to the keys that were
 on computer keyboards in the 1940s and 1950s. Less than, less than or equal to. So we didn't
 have fancy math characters so we just concatenated less than equal to be less than or equal to.
 This double equals is the asking, is this equal to? So that's a little tricky. The equal
 sign is that assignment operator. If I was building a language today from scratch, I
 would probably make assignment be arrow and the equals question to have an equals. Or
 I might say, somewhere I would say question equals. But I'm not writing this, building
 this language, so that's not up to me. So this is the question. Double equals is asking
 the question is equal to. Greater than or equal? Greater than and not equal. So this
 is the exclamation point is sort of like not equal. So that's sort of not equal. So that's
 how we do not equal. So if we take a look at some of these in some examples, all of
 these are going to be true because of the way x is set. If x is equal to 5, that's the
 question version, that's true or false. It'll execute that. If x is greater than 4, it's
 going to execute that. If x is greater than or equal to 5, it's going to execute that.
 Here's kind of a shorthand where if there's only one line in this block, you can kind
 of pull it up right on the same line after the equals. If x is less than 6, which it
 is, true, execute that. Then if x is less than or equal to 5, do that. And if x is not
 equal to 6, do that. Now, like I said, all these questions have been carefully constructed
 so that they're true just to kind of show you the syntax of those comparison operators.
 Now, you don't just have to have a single line of text in the indented block, and this
 will be something you're going to get used to. So if we indent more than one line, then
 the indented conditional code is actually these three lines. So the idea is you have
 an if statement, you come in, you do an indent, and as long as you stay indented, you stay
 in that if block. If it's false, it just skips all of those. So the way this is going to
 execute, x is 5, we print before 5, is x equal 5? That's the question mark, and that's true.
 So it's going to run all these, and then come back, and then continue on, and then deindent,
 so all this stuff is running, right? And then it says x equals 6. Well, that was false,
 so that skips all of them. So none of these lines of code run, so these actually don't
 run, and it says afterwards 6, so that's a mistake. Those don't run right there, because
 x is not equal 6. And so here is a bit of code, it's got some nested, it's got a nested
 block, but it gives you the sense that you have to be very explicit when you're reading
 Python code, of whether the indent is the same between two lines, the same, increased
 or decreased. And every time you increase it, you mean something, and every time you
 decrease it, you mean something, and literally if it stays the same, you mean something as
 well. And so if we take a look at this, here we have a line, and the next line has the
 same indent. This is an if, with a colon at the end, so we have to increase the indent,
 and now we're maintaining it. So these two lines are part of that if, but now we have
 deindent it. So whether you choose to deindent this word, or this word, or whatever, where
 you do this deindent affects the scope of how far this if statement lasts. It lasts
 up to, but not including the line, that's deindented to the same level as the if. So
 this is a deindent, now we have a blank line, which doesn't matter, and we maintain it,
 now we have a for, which we'll learn about in the next chapter, which is a looping structure,
 let's do a for, a for runs this five times, it has a colon, and it also expects an indented
 block, now we have what's called a nested block, where we have an if, and a colon, we
 go into some more. So this is like two indents, right, so these are one indent, and these
 are two indents, and so this is a block within a block, and then we deindent, so that means
 this print is not part of the if statement, but is still part of the for statement, and
 then we deindent again, and that means this print is on the same level as that for statement.
 So if you start thinking about this, you want to be able to start thinking that these blocks
 are the start of the block with the colon line, up to, but not including this line that's
 been deindented. So the for goes this far, right, the for goes up to, but not including
 the line that's deindented. The if goes up to, but not including the line that's deindented.
 So as you do this, you'll sort of mentally start drawing these blocks, and pretty soon
 you will start constructing them as blocks, and it takes a while, but doesn't take forever.
 But in Python, unlike other languages, you have, this is very important and it matters,
 and you can have syntax errors if you get it wrong, because you're really communicating
 the shape and structure of your code using these indents and deindents. We already saw
 a nested indent, this is a nested if, so you can put an if within an if, and you can go
 as far deep as you want to go, like Russian dolls. And so here we have x=42, if it's 1,
 we indent 1, and then with this next thing we do, these are at the same level of indent,
 but now we see an if, and it has to indent further. So this is like 2 in, 8 spaces, and
 then, then we deindent back, actually we deindent back too. And so if you watch this, and you
 take a look at how this works, it runs to here, oops, back up, comes in here, the answer
 is yes, x is greater than 1, prints this, is x less than 100, well it's 42, so the answer
 is yes, so it runs this and then it kind of continues back to there. And you can also
 think of drawing boxes around this, this is one if box, and then within that if box there
 is another if box. And again, it's the indent, the indent block up to but not including where
 the deindent happens. And this here is like 2 backwards deindents, so it ends 2 blocks.
 So 2 blocks are ended by where we place this. We could move this in, or we could move this
 out. We could have it all the way into here, we could have it to here, or here, and where
 we put that line depends on how the ends of these blocks are going to work out. So one
 form of a, that's a 1 branch if that we just saw, but then you can also have what's called
 a 2 branch if. And the basic idea of a 2 branch if is that you're going to come in, you're
 going to ask a question, and you're going to go one direction if it's yes, and another
 direction if it's no. We call this an if then else, it's kind of like a fork in the road.
 And the way to think about it is depending on the output of this question, we're going
 to pick one or two of these, but if we pick one, the other one's never going to happen.
 So it's like an either or. We're either going to go one way, or we're going to go the other
 way, but there is no path where we somehow go boot through both of them. That, that doesn't
 happen. And the syntax that we use for this is what we call the if then else. And so the
 first part is normal if with an indent, and then we deindent, and then this is another
 reserved word, else, with a colon, and then we reindent. And so this is really end up
 being part of a whole block here, and the else is the part, this is the part that runs
 if it's false, and this is the part that runs if it's true. The first branch of the if,
 the first indented block is what runs if it's true, and the second indented block is the
 one that runs if it's false. And so here we go, it just, if x is greater than two, in
 this case it's yes, we're going to print bigger, and then we're going to be all done. And so
 we do one, and so this one did run, and this one did not run. So basically with an if then
 else, one of the two branches is going to run, but there's no case in which both branches
 run. And again, you sort of draw these blocks around these things mentally, and in this
 one you sort of take from the if, the else is really part of the block up to, but not
 including that print, which is back indented, deindented back to the same level as the if
 state. This, Python is actually one of the more elegant languages, even though after
 a while this indenting, when you get too far in it gets a little bit complex, but this
 is a good way to visualize this with these indents. Coming up next we're going to talk
 about some more complex conditional structures.
