 So welcome back.
 Let's talk a little bit more about some more complex
 conditional statements that sort of build on this concept
 of if and if-then-else.
 The first thing we're going to look at is the multi-way branch.
 And so the idea is it's kind of like the if-then-else where
 you're going to pick one of two, but now we
 can pick one of three, or one of four, or one of five.
 And it introduces a new concept called the LF.
 The LF is another reserved word inside Python.
 And the way it works is it's probably best to look at this
 here where it checks the first one, and if it's a true,
 then it runs that, and then it's done.
 It doesn't check them all.
 It's not like it sees that there are two logical conditions.
 It actually checks them, the first one,
 and how you order these matters, as we'll see in a bit.
 And so if the first one is true, it runs.
 If the first one is false and the second one is true,
 it runs this one, and it's done.
 And if neither of them are true, it falls through,
 and there's an else clause that is otherwise, and it runs that.
 So basically, it's going to run one and then skip the other two,
 or it is going to skip one, skip two, and then run this one.
 But it only runs, in this case, one of them.
 But the important thing is it checks these questions in order.
 And it doesn't check the second question
 until it finds that the first-- it doesn't
 check the second question until it
 knows the first question is false.
 So if the first question is true, you're done.
 You're done, and you're done with this.
 You're done with the whole block at that point.
 So only one of these three is going to execute in that block.
 So here's sort of some examples of this.
 If we, for example, have x equals 0,
 it's going to come down here.
 x is less than true.
 That's true.
 So it runs this code, and then it skips, skips, skips,
 down to that.
 And so it's like this, runs that code,
 and then skips to the end.
 On the other hand, if it's 5, then this is false,
 and it skips that, and it checks this, this is true.
 It runs this code, and then it's done, skips to the end.
 Goes like false, true, run, end.
 And then if x is like 20, for example, it runs.
 It runs, false, false, run the else clause, and you're done.
 So skip, skip, oh, else, run that code, and you're done.
 So in this case, we ran that, and we didn't run that,
 and we didn't run that.
 Again, one of them is going to run.
 They're checked in order.
 These questions are checked in order, not out of order.
 It doesn't look ahead.
 It just checks in the order that you wrote it.
 You're the one that wrote that order.
 And so there's a couple of variations on this multi-way.
 You can have no else.
 You can have no else, as in this case.
 And this just means that it might not run any of them.
 In this case, x is 5, so it's not less than 2,
 but then it runs this one.
 But if x was like 50, for example, if x was 50,
 then this would be false, and it would skip,
 and this would still be false, and it would skip,
 and either of these two would run.
 So if you don't have an else, you're
 not guaranteed that one of them is going to run,
 because else is like the catch-all.
 If the other ones are all false, then the else
 is the one that runs.
 Similarly, you can have many LFs.
 But this is where it's really important for you
 to make sure you know what order they're being taken in.
 So if this is true, it runs.
 It goes all the way to the bottom.
 If it's false, false, false, true, it runs this one,
 and it's done.
 If, on the other hand, it looks at it as false-- oops,
 go back, go back-- if it runs false, false, false, false,
 they're all false, then it runs the else.
 This one has an else, this one didn't have an else.
 They don't have to have them.
 The key is you can have more than one of these LS.
 So I got a couple little things.
 I'll let you pause right now and look at-- the question is,
 are there, looking at the three lines or four lines of code,
 x equals something.
 Are there lines of code that will never execute,
 regardless of the value for x?
 And I'll let you pause and think about it,
 and then I'll explain it to you.
 OK, hopefully you paused and thought about it
 as long as you like.
 So let me now explain it to you.
 So we come in here, and if x is less than or equal to 2,
 it's going to run this first thing.
 And if x is greater than or equal to 2,
 it's going to run this.
 And if neither of those are true,
 then it's going to run this.
 Well, the weird thing is, all numbers
 are either less than 2 or greater than or equal to 2.
 I carefully constructed this to the point
 where it would never run this line of code.
 It is either going to run this one or run that one,
 but it's not going to ever run this one.
 So that was kind of like a weird dysfunctional one
 that I constructed.
 This other one is a little different.
 If x is less than 2, we do this.
 If x is less than 20, we do that.
 If x is less than 10, we do that.
 And if none of those are true, we do that.
 Well, the problem here is between these two lines.
 The problem is, if something's less than 10,
 like 6, for example, it's also less than 20.
 So even though there might be values for which this is true,
 those also are going to have this true.
 So for something like 6, it's going to run here,
 and it's not even going to look at this.
 That's the point.
 It doesn't even look at this.
 And so that's-- I mean, I could have made this more sensible
 if I had moved this little block of code up to there.
 So this is where the order in which you
 choose your questions, the way you put these LFs together,
 matters because it doesn't look at all of them.
 It only looks as long as it can.
 As long as it sees falses, then it
 keeps on going to the next one.
 But as soon as it doesn't see a false, it doesn't continue.
 So the last conditional structure
 we'll talk about is the try and accept structure.
 If you know any other languages like C++ or Java or JavaScript,
 you're like, whoa, that's kind of an advanced concept.
 But it turns out in Python, because of Python's propensity
 to throw tracebacks in situations where you kind of
 would like to recover, it turns out
 you kind of have to use it a little more and a little earlier
 in your programming skill.
 So the problem is what if there is a line of code
 and you absolutely know it's going to make a traceback?
 It's going to blow up.
 But you don't want to blow up.
 I don't want to have code blow up.
 If you're using my autograder and you
 see a traceback in my autograder,
 that's kind of like I consider that a failure.
 I could put an error like, hey, you entered blank data
 or you didn't enter a number.
 But a traceback, that just seems like I'm
 too lazy as a programmer.
 So we as programmers are supposed
 to anticipate parts of our code that
 are going to blow up potentially based on perhaps the user's
 input and then do something about it.
 And that's what the try and accept are for.
 If you take this little dangerous piece of code
 that might break and might blow up,
 and you surround it with a try and it says,
 this might blow up.
 And if it fails, run this code down here.
 So that's the try.
 And if you get an exception, the accept
 is kind of like if you get an exception.
 And the problem is if you are running code-- here's
 a little bit of code-- we put hello Bob in,
 and we convert it to an integer.
 And we know from past experience that this blows up.
 You can't take hello Bob and convert it to an integer.
 It's just going to blow up.
 The problem is-- and here we are.
 It says, oh, you blew up on line two.
 That's great.
 And I'm not very happy with hello Bob and whatever.
 But the important thing is your program stops.
 These other lines, they don't-- oops.
 These other lines, they don't exist.
 It doesn't go any further.
 Remember, the traceback is Python is really confused.
 And I don't know what to do next.
 So Python is just going to be conservative and stop.
 So Python stops, and your program stops.
 No matter how much error checking you put down here,
 it doesn't matter because it's gone.
 It's all gone.
 And like I said, we take this kind of personally
 because the code that you write is like the you being put
 into the computer, giving it instructions.
 And if the code blows up, well, that sort of wipes you out.
 You're not in the game anymore.
 You're not able to do anything.
 So we want to be able to-- especially in these situations
 where we can anticipate that an error that
 might happen in the normal course or your program's
 execution might be something that you want to compensate for.
 And that's what the try and accept does.
 So here's a bit of code for the try and accept.
 And we just have two little bits of straight line code.
 And so we put a string in here that's hello Bob.
 And then we're going to convert it to an integer.
 This is the dangerous code.
 This code, in this case, with hello Bob,
 is going to do a traceback.
 And so we say try, and then we indent the dangerous code.
 And then we add this little accept bit.
 If it works, the accept is ignored.
 If this blows up, it runs the accept.
 So in this code, it's going to come in.
 It's going to try this.
 This is going to blow up.
 But instead of giving a traceback,
 it's going to say, oh, I've got an available accept.
 I'm going to run this accept code,
 and then I'm going to continue on.
 And so that prints out first negative 1.
 So because we set this variable, Ister, to negative 1,
 like a little flag telling us that something went wrong.
 And then we keep on going.
 And now we have put in 1, 2, 3.
 The digit's 123.
 The digit's 123.
 And now it's going to work.
 But we still have it in a try block.
 And then this one works.
 It does not blow up.
 And then it ignores the accept block.
 So the accept block is only triggered
 when something goes wrong in the code.
 It is ignored if something doesn't go wrong.
 So it's like you bought an insurance policy
 on this line of code.
 And when things go wrong, your accept block
 springs into action and does whatever
 it is that you want it to do in the case of an error.
 So that's a pretty useful thing.
 You've got to be a little bit careful that you don't overuse
 it.
 Because if you put more than one line inside the try part,
 and one of the lines blows up, it
 doesn't come back to the try block.
 And so in this one here, we have kind of a simple, silly one
 where we set the string, we're worried about some stuff.
 Well, the print statement's never going to blow up.
 So it's a bad idea to put it in try except anyways.
 Then we do this conversion.
 And that's the dangerous part.
 And in this one, it's going to blow up.
 And so then it's going to go to the accept block,
 and then run the accept block, and then continue.
 What it does not do, what it doesn't do,
 is somehow go back and finish this.
 So these lines are gone.
 So if you look at it like this, this works.
 The try starts.
 Hello.
 This blows up.
 It goes to the accept.
 It runs the accept, and it continues on.
 Never runs that code.
 So it's not like you took out an insurance on the whole block.
 Any of those lines can blow up in the block.
 But whichever line blows up, that
 is the last line that's executing in that block.
 So you tend to want-- in this particular example,
 you would probably-- the print statement would go out there,
 and this print statement would come down here.
 And you would only put in your try block a single line of code
 that you think might blow up, because you kind of know print
 statements aren't going to blow up.
 So this is an example that's a more common real world example,
 where the user is going to type some data.
 And that's users that get us in trouble.
 So our program starts by asking the user enter a number.
 And we know that this could be dangerous.
 So we're going to put the conversion from string
 to integer in a try block.
 And we're going to set negative 1 if that's a failure.
 And then if it's greater than 0, we'll say, nice work.
 And if it's less than 0, well, not a number.
 So first time we run this program,
 out comes enter a number.
 We type in 42, which is a string.
 That 42 goes back into roster, runs in here.
 This runs.
 It's fine.
 That becomes a 42 number.
 So we skip the accept block.
 And Ival is greater than 0.
 We print out nice work, and we skip the else.
 So it says, nice work.
 On the other hand, if we run it again this time,
 the input says enter a number.
 And we're silly.
 We enter the word 42, but in words, 40, F-O-U-R-T-Y.
 So that's a string, and that goes into roster.
 And then the execution continues.
 We run in here.
 And now this is going to blow up.
 That's going to blow up.
 Normally, we would see a traceback right there.
 There would be a traceback.
 But we're not going to, because we put this calculation
 in a try and accept block.
 It's going to immediately run the accept block,
 set Ival to negative 1, continue on with the program.
 See, you are not blown up at this point.
 And if Ival is greater than 0, well, it's negative 1.
 So we're going to hit the else clause
 and print out not a number.
 So we've done error detection.
 The user set something that caused a line of our code
 to kind of blow up.
 But we put that line in a try and accept block,
 and so we caught it.
 And so we dealt with that fact.
 So in summary in this, we talked about if statements.
 We talked about else.
 We talked about try and accept, how important indentation
 is to mark blocks where they begin in the end,
 and an else if, and try except.
 So up next, we're going to talk about loops and iteration.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
