 - Hello, and welcome to chapter eight.
 We're going to talk about lists in this chapter.
 Up to now, we've been talking about algorithms.
 Algorithms are the concept in computer science
 of using the programming language to express the steps
 that you want the computer to go through
 to solve the problem.
 Read some data, convert it to a floating point number,
 check to see if it's greater than 40,
 do one thing, if it's greater than 40,
 do another thing, if it's not, then print out the result.
 Or open a file, read everything,
 if the first line starts with something, do something,
 if not, skip it, and then add all the things up.
 Those are steps, those are a series of steps,
 and hopefully by now, you're getting to the point
 where you have a good understanding of steps.
 But there's a whole other side of computer programming,
 and we call it data structures.
 And data structures is not the steps,
 but instead, clever ways that you lay out the data,
 and clever ways that you make sure
 that the data does what you want it to do.
 And so that's what we're going to start talking about now.
 Lists are the first and most simplest data structure.
 Strings are kind of like data structures,
 but lists are probably our first real data structure
 that we're going to think about and design
 and make use of effectively.
 But before we talk about what is a collection,
 we should talk about what is not a collection.
 So we're familiar with what a variable is.
 We know that a variable is a little piece of memory
 that's got a label on it.
 And then an assignment statement, you know,
 sticks a two into X, and then X is,
 and then two is in this little cupboard.
 And then it goes to the next line,
 and then four goes into X,
 and so the two goes away and the four is there.
 A key thing is you can't have more than one variable
 at any given moment, right?
 And more than one value in a variable.
 So when we move to collections,
 collections are more like suitcases.
 We can put lots of things in them.
 We have ways of organizing them,
 and as we go through lists and dictionaries and tuples,
 we'll see how there are different ways to organize them.
 And as a matter of fact,
 we've been talking about lists for a while.
 Every time we use one of these square bracket syntaxes
 in earlier programs, we've been working with lists.
 And so this is technically a three item list
 with three strings, got commas here.
 Joseph has one string, Glenn and Sally are another string.
 And here's another one that is another thing.
 And the list is basically, it's a list constant,
 and it's being assigned into a variable.
 So this friends variable has three things in it,
 so that's different than what we've been talking about before.
 So these bracket structures with square brackets
 are those lists.
 And so the print is just a print with parentheses
 to get the print to work.
 But 12476 is a three item integer list.
 Red, yellow, and blue is a three item string list.
 But it doesn't all have to be integers or strings.
 Python can handle different things
 and different kinds of data
 in different positions in the list.
 So red, 2498.6.
 A three item list with a string, an integer,
 and a floating point number.
 And while we're not going to use this too much for now,
 this outer list is a three item list,
 and the second item is another list.
 So this is kind of eluding toward what we'll do
 when we start talking about data structures.
 And that is, we have a structure
 and then we have another structure inside of it.
 And sometimes this can get quite complex.
 And we're doing this for a reason.
 This here has no reason,
 just to show you that it's possible,
 that lists can be made up of lots of things,
 including other lists.
 And of course, there is also the notion of the empty list.
 And like I said, I have had to be able to tell you
 about lists all along.
 We use them in for loops.
 We can put lots of things here.
 We can put file handle here.
 We can go through the file.
 We can put a string there.
 We can go through the characters in the string.
 And in the list.
 And the iteration variable then goes
 through the successive elements of the list.
 And that's why this prints out five, four, three, two, one.
 And then the loop is done and it prints out blast off.
 So we've been using them,
 and we've been actually iterating through lists
 with for statements all along.
 So the for each, I mean the for statement,
 you know, has been something we use with lists.
 And when you just need to go iterate through the list
 and go through every item in order,
 the for is a great way to do that.
 So friend is our iteration variable.
 Friends is our list variable.
 And so that says friend is going to successfully take
 on the value Joseph, Glen, and Sally,
 and print out, you know, happy new year, Joseph,
 Glen, and Sally.
 It runs three times, once for each of the values,
 and the iteration variable advances.
 Now, I do want to make it really clear
 that the choice of friends-a and friend-a,
 singular and plural, is arbitrary and capricious.
 It happens to be convenient and intuitive
 that the iteration variable is one,
 and the list variable is more than one.
 But Python has no idea about singular and plural.
 As a matter of fact, Python would care.
 It would be totally equivalent for Python
 to do the same thing, to have the list variable be z,
 and the iteration variable be x.
 X will take on the successive values of these three things.
 Now, am I being nice to you by calling this list friends,
 and this iteration variable friend?
 I am, but I also don't want it to confuse you
 if you're just a beginning developer.
 So, just like strings, we can sort of look within lists.
 Part of the thing is when you put more than one thing
 in a data structure, you need to get them out.
 And so, lists have positions, they maintain order,
 and so the first thing in the list
 is the sub-zero position, sub-one, sub-two.
 Just like strings, they're zero-based.
 Just like European elevators, they're zero-based.
 So, if we take a look and we say, oh, friends sub-one,
 that's how I read that, the little square brackets.
 When you take a variable here and you say friends sub-one,
 remember, singular and plural don't matter.
 Friends sub-one means Glenn, because this is the zero
 and that's the one, and then Sally's the sub-two,
 and so that's what prints Glenn out
 in this particular thing.
 Now, lists are mutable.
 Mutable is another word for changeable.
 They can be changed, meaning that a list has three things.
 You can change this thing right in the middle if you want.
 To take a look at what's not mutable,
 strings are not mutable.
 So, if I take a look at assigning banana into fruit,
 well, fruit sub-zero is a capital letter B.
 Could we imagine, for the moment,
 that we could change fruit sub-zero to lowercase b?
 Well, the syntax would be how you would do it
 if you could do it, but it turns out
 that strings are not mutable,
 meaning they're not changeable once you create them.
 And that's why when we do things like lowercase or uppercase,
 we take a look at the fruit and we say,
 give me a lowercase copy of that,
 and then we take the return value from this
 and we store that in x,
 and that's how x becomes a lowercase banana.
 But fruit is still the original one.
 So fruit has not changed.
 Compare and contrast that with a list, though.
 Here we have a five-item list, two, 14, 26, 41.
 And we're going to do the sub-two position,
 and the sub-two is zero, one, two.
 So that's that one right there.
 And we're going to assign a 28 into it.
 So that 28 is going in here.
 Gonna wipe that out and put 28 in.
 So we can do item assignment in lists
 by putting a bracket syntax on the left-hand side
 to say don't just put it in the variable,
 put it in this position within the variable.
 So that's what that's doing.
 And when you print that out, the 28.
 Everything else is unchanged.
 I mean, the whole list is there.
 There could be 1,000 items in the list.
 And then you're changing the second one.
 We have a function called len.
 We've been using this len function all along
 to take a look at how long strings are.
 It counts the number of characters in the string,
 so that's a nine-character string.
 If we have items in a list,
 len tells us how many items there are.
 It's not like how many characters there are.
 It's the number of things.
 And each thing doesn't have to be a number.
 It could be a number, a string, or even another list.
 And len is the way to say,
 hey, how many things are in there?
 There's a function that returns a list of numbers.
 And we use it, as we'll see in a second,
 to construct specialized loops to go through lists.
 So let's take a look at this range function
 just for a minute.
 So range takes as its parameter
 the number of numbers that you want returned.
 So I want like, I'd like a four-item list
 with the numbers zero, up to, but not including four.
 And so it just turns out that that is really useful
 for constructing for loops that are counted for loops
 that go to zero, to the one, to the two,
 as compared to the definite loops
 that go through each one.
 And so it's a common thing to say,
 okay, we know how many things are in this list.
 There are three friends.
 And if I put combined range and len,
 so I take len friends, which is three,
 and then I take range sub three,
 I get zero, one, and two.
 And so the interesting thing
 is this zero corresponds to the first one,
 one corresponds to the second one,
 and two corresponds to the third one, okay?
 And so we'll use this to construct loops,
 especially when we need to go through a,
 we need to go through an array
 and remember what position we're at.
 And so here's just an example of two different loops.
 This is a for loop that's just going to go through
 whatever's in this list,
 so friend is just going to take on the successive values,
 and so it's going to print out these three things
 just as you would expect.
 And if you don't need to,
 while you're going through the loop,
 know the position, your relative position
 from the top in the loop, that's okay.
 But sometimes you want a little more sophisticated loop,
 and instead you want to be able to
 loop through where you know the position.
 And so what we do instead is instead of looping through
 that list itself, we do range lend friends,
 which gives us zero, one, two.
 And then i takes on the successive values,
 zero, one, and then two.
 So this loop is going to run four times,
 and i is zero the first time.
 And we might even just look up the value
 inside that sub-zero value,
 so we get Joseph the first time,
 so prints out happy new year Joseph,
 goes and i becomes one now,
 and so it gives us Glenn,
 and that prints out and away you go.
 So if you look at these two loops,
 if you look at these two loops,
 they really do the exact same thing.
 The only difference is this we allowed the four
 to find its way with iteration variable through,
 and here we created our own i variable
 that went through the positions,
 and they're dense, there's no gaps in here,
 so it's zero through two that it goes through.
 So these two are equivalent.
 There'll be times when you'll want to use one and the other.
 I tend to prefer the first one because it's prettier
 as long as it works for me.
 So that gets us started with loops.
 We'll be back in just a bit.
 (gentle music)
